_International Journal of Business and Social Science                            Vol. 5, No. 6(1); May 2014_

# **Analysis of Starbucks Employees Operating Philosophy**


**Xia Jianfei**

School of Business
Shanghai University of Engineering

Science-No. 333 Longteng Road
in Songjiang District in Shanghai

China

**Abstract**

_With the continuous development and improvement of the international market, the competition among_
_enterprises has gradually evolved into a new competition level of the talented,and whether the company use the_
_excellent people effectively, retain qualified personnel, motivate the talented or not is playing a critical role in_
_enabling businesses to win in the long-term development, and as we know, Starbucks has seized this key point,_
_through effective incentive policies to create an environment that encourages employees to self-improvement,_
_communication and cooperation. Starbucks operating philosophy has a profound impact on the three areas, the_
_first is people-oriented corporate culture, the second is employee stockownership, and finally is the enterprise_
_spare no effort to training employees._

**Keywords:** Starbucks, employees, philosophy

_**Introduction**_

In 1971, English teacher Jerry Baldwin, history teacher Zev Siegel and writer Gordon Bowker opened the first
Starbucks cooperation. The three of them are affected by the person named Alfred Peet’s coffee companies. The
first Starbucks store is in downtown next Pike Place Fish Market in Seattle's, mainly sells the high-quality coffee
beans and coffee equipment (this store still exists). In the first year of opening up for business, they purchased
green coffee beans from Pete, and then they buy directly from coffee beans origin.


And at the time of 1971, Starbucks has only six stores in Seattle and sells coffee beans. In 1987, the current
chairman Howard Schultz bought Starbucks by financing. Since then, he made the U.S. version of Starbucks
according to Italian coffee shops, in 1994, hired Wright Macy's design for the store world-chain, and today
Starbucks has opened 6,000 stores in 30 countries around the world. And this number is growing by the speed of
three per day. Quality products and services, a clear market positioning and aggressive marketing strategy makes
Starbucks rapid growth of global brands.


In 1999, Starbucks purchase Tazo tea brand at the cost of $ 810 million, and then opened up in Seattle Tazo first
tea shops on November 9, 2012. Starbucks acquainted juice maker Evolution Fresh Inc in November 2011 at a
price of $ 30 million.


On June 5, 2012, Starbucks acquired La Boulange Bakery brand at the cost $ 100 million in cash from the
investment group named Next World Group. On November 14, 2012 Starbucks give the price of $ 620 million in
cash to acquire high-grade tea Group Teavana. And Starbucks, on January 3, 2013, said that in February this year,
it is ready to authorize the Hong Kong Maxim's Group to open first Starbucks coffee shop in Ho Chi Minh City in
Vietnam.


Its success not relies on the marketing techniques, but thanks to the attention of "relationship theory", especially
the relationship with employees. Today, Schultz has changed the coffee from a mass consumer goods to advanced
consumer experience, maybe becomes a way of life, Starbucks coffees is famous for worldwide. Imagining, cafe
is a stage, and we think the staff is the best performances of the actors, the shop is arranged every stage of the
design space, the stage lights are designed by purpose. The whole combination of static and dynamic visual
warmth, hearing the arbitrary, smell the coffee aroma is composed of a beautiful story plot.


55


_**©**_ _Center for Promoting Ideas, USA                                                www.ijbssnet.com_


This episode belongs to Starbucks, its appearance, utility and locates sales and advertising are matched with
market positioning, which is the only part of the Starbucks brand personality. [ [15] ]


_**1. Rules of Starbucks Partners**_


As Starbucks CEO Schultz said: Today if you create a company, your responsibility is making every person who
you contact can build a sense of trust, do things in morality. If you cannot exceed the customer's expectations, you
cannot build a good company. However, in order to meet or exceed their expectations, you must go beyond the
expectations of employees ------ no matter how small companies. I do not recommend taking a shortcut, the most
important is to attract those people who you have the same values.


Starbucks, when it recruits staff, the president does not care about their intelligence (IQ) whatever it is very high
or not, but are more concerned about the quality of the other two, CQ and EQ. CQ is represented the curiosity,
because leaders want people to have a curiosity about the world. I hope they can go to explore what will happen
in the future, I hope they are dissatisfied with the situation that they has faced up now, so please devoted to
constant innovation, and constantly improving themselves. EQ is emotional intelligence. In this complex world,
you need to have some emotional intelligence. Of course, if all of three the people have, and that is Kobe Bryant,
after all, such people are in the clear minority.


Secondly, the people who have be recruited, then do what? Despite the achievements of a company need to have
different departments, different functions, and so on, but the most important sectors ----- often the most
overlooked is the Human Resources Department. You want to build a great company without great people, it is
impossible; without a good environment, they are not able to work together, that is also impossible. [[7]]
January 4, 2013, Yu Hua, vice president of Starbucks (China) Partner Resources - which is usually the company's
human resources, he introduced the following two points:


The first point is that Starbucks employees constituted, Starbucks, as a coffee retailer, Starbucks employees are
concentrated in the vast majority of stores. In recent years the total number of staff recruitment Starbucks in China
every year from 6000 to 7000 people, of which more than 90% of the new employees will enter stores as
Starbucks staff. Starbucks plans to open 2,400 stores worldwide in the next two years, and in mainland China
stores increase to 1200 within two years which will bring more jobs. Starbucks stores and Support Center staff is
bi-directional flow. For example, an employee who is with the wishes in the stores after getting the manager's
recommendation can participate in the interview vacancies Support Center. Yu Hua said that every year there are
getting into the store support center more than 20 percent of Starbucks employees.


The second point is Starbucks hiring


There Campus recruitment Jobs - Management Trainee Program, at Starbucks in 2013 for campus recruitment
management trainee program, stores are open sector jobs, the number of tubes Pearson so far recruited about 400.
After graduates submitting job applications, but also to complete the online assessment and interview Starbucks.
After entering the tube Pearson Starbucks and social development opportunities to recruit staff is basically the
same, but the former is usually able to grow into the store assistant manager in 9-15 months time; social
recruitment: internal staff recommendations, for stores general staff positions, Starbucks takes actions to hire
more for public recruitment. Of course, the store staff can also recommend suitable candidates to the company Starbucks also like to see more this way - just need to pass the interview, candidates will be able to enter into the
store work; Management Trainee: In addition to the annual campus recruiting for a part of a management trainee,
Starbucks employees inside the company can apply to join the management trainee program; other ways: ways to
move into the community via other Starbucks employees have more choice, for example, can skip the stores
directly for jobs Support Center. Yu Hua said the "Business Weekly" and support center department stores,
including the development and design department, marketing and products, the Ministry of Public Work
Department of Foreign Affairs, Human Resources partners, research and development and quality control,
logistics, supply chain department.


56


_International Journal of Business and Social Science                            Vol. 5, No. 6(1); May 2014_


Recruitment selection principles: Firstly, to be carried out good cooperation with others, behind the counter was a
Starbucks coffee production to the sales pipeline, and staff morale and collaboration skills for the customer is also
visible; the customer first, customers before contacting to their product was first exposed to employees, their
attitude will directly affect the customer's impression of the company's brand; secondly, to have a good ability to
learn, maybe you have to start from a shop barista, but as long as you have excellent learning ability, you will
have a better development opportunities, and finally, to have the ability to influence others, especially when you
want to lead a team in the future, such as leadership staff own stores, even leading a regional store operations,
This ability is very important. [ [3]]

_**2. Starbucks Employees Operating**_


"If I'm not in the office, I’m in the Starbucks; if I'm not in Starbucks, I'm on the way to go to the Starbucks."
Learn to Starbucks, people know that the great success of this commercial by Schultz is inseparable from its
unique concept of employees and corporate culture, "people-oriented" reflected most vividly in Starbucks. In fact,
with the continuous development and improvement of the international market, the competition among enterprises
has gradually evolved into a talented people competition level, use effectively and retain qualified personnel,
motivate the talented is becoming the key factors of enabling businesses to win in the long-term development.
Starbucks is seizing this key point, through effective incentive policies to create an environment that encourages
employees to self-improvement, communication and cooperation. [ [12] ]


**2.1 People-Oriented**


Enterprises are in order to gain an advantage in the fierce competition in the market, continue to grow; they must
change the traditional model of enterprise and employee relations. From the history of western enterprise
development we have seen, the relationship between enterprises and employees first performance of an
employment relationship, followed by the performance of a management relationship. Under the traditional
management model, companies hire employees, employees work only accept the authority and power of the work
is not selected; enterprise management employees, employees must work for the organization's objectives and
constraints under various systems of management and employees in a subordinate position. Premise of internal
marketing theory is that companies need to be treated like external customer center, starting from the employee's
needs for staff management.


As a value-driven and service-oriented enterprises, the company has a Starbucks principle is widely accepted.
This company always put people first and employees a lot of investment. This all happened not by chance, all
comes from the CEO’s values and beliefs. Schultz had said: “I want to build a sense of ownership that can bring
people and can provide comprehensive medical insurance, and most importantly, work to bring them self-esteem
people generally agree that the company is to give them. The company brings self-esteem, to respect their
contribution, regardless of education level of employees in the work place and where. "One executive said: "This
place is a place where people with similar coffee, we use the best machines, best coffee, the best staff dedication
to our customers the best experience, so we started training in mind and the thrust of the performance of people
care, it and the company's ' mission statement ' is also inextricably linked, " " mission Statement " the first
mention : " provide the perfect working environment, creating mutual respect, mutual trust and work atmosphere
. " Starbucks seems to improve the work environment, not only it is a competitive salary, even it can also learn a
lot about coffee knowledge, knowledge about life. Not only can be used at Starbucks, but will be used for lifelong
if leaving.


Starbucks wants to let each company employees feel that they are valued. They believe that in order to achieve
long-term survival and success in the market, business executives must establish a relationship of mutual trust
with employees and consumers, this relationship must be built on the right, true and genuine commercial
operation basis. The respect and trust that company gave the employees reflected in all aspects. To encourage
employees to contribute ideas, the company recommended that each employee ideas are taken seriously.
Starbucks carry on regularly company-wide opinion poll, and a telephone survey system and comment cards
employees can speak out on issues, related management staff will respond within two weeks about employees’
ideas. Starbucks also established an open forum within to discuss concerns about the work of the staff, tell the
staff of the event occurred recently, explain the financial operating conditions, allow employees to ask questions
to senior management.


57


_**©**_ _Center for Promoting Ideas, USA                                                www.ijbssnet.com_


Starbucks seems to reflect the problems of employees can bring new information to management, good ideas from
different angles to provide solutions to problems; it is worth collecting and research for company. In addition, the
company also regularly issued letters of employees; these letters are usually questions about the company's
development. Recommendations made by employees of the company to be particularly concerned about the
details. Sometimes, often recommended for those seemingly insignificant step onto the company's performance
will make a big step. The company mastered the details of the superb skills, make enterprises more effectively
deal with the complex problems so that they can provide the competitors cannot. Good at listening to ideas from
small Starbucks employees make decisions become more flexible, reflecting faster, and more resilience, while
improving internal team trust, respect and communication between the atmosphere and improve the sense of
ownership of employees. [[14] ]


**2.2 ESOP**


Reflected employee-oriented corporate culture, Starbucks always put people first, and is willing to invest a lot of
employees; all of it is from Schultz, the chairman of Starbucks, his values and beliefs. Schultz’s management
style is related to his poor family, and he understood and show compassion for people who was living in the
bottom of society. His life experiences and hones have a direct impact on the ownership structure and the
Starbucks corporate culture, in turn, the ownership structure and corporate culture and the commercial success of
Starbucks has played an indispensable role in promoting. He firmly believes that any time the company should
put the interests of employees in the first place, and respect for the contributions they make, which will come out
the first-class customer service levels, and then the company will naturally get a good return on investment.
Starbucks strengthen its culture and values through employee incentive system, and become one of the brand's
established businesses who do not rely on advertising. Compared to other companies in the same industry,
Starbucks employees’ wages and benefits are more generous. Starbucks every year asked to do a salary survey
with the comparison to the same industry, after a comparative analysis, there is a fixed annual salary. In order to
strengthen and promote the company cultural construction, the company has implemented a series of incentive
compensation plans. For full-time and part-time employees (in accordance with the relevant standards), the
company to provide health and dental insurance, and employee assistance programs, disability insurance. In
addition, a company called working solution means to help to deal with work and family issues. This situation is
not common in the retail industry. Most companies will not pay for the part-time employee benefits costs;
although the cost of benefits paid part-time employees increased the company's total benefit costs, but the average
benefit costs are still low compared to rivals. Despite the huge investment, but the company still pay large
dividends. Employees who enjoy these benefits have grateful feelings, and thus form a more attentive customer
service.


Starbucks employees can not only enjoy a generous addition to wages and benefits, but also can buy the
company's stock options in accordance with the regulations in cheaper price. In 1991, Starbucks established a
stock investment plan that allows employees to buy shares at a discount. In this way, all employees have the
opportunity to become owners of the company. Starbucks stock prices continue to soar, the option value and pride
of employees rising. In addition, Starbucks is also more emphasis on ideological education of employees;
enabling employees are shareholders of the company to establish its own philosophy. In Starbucks, employees are
not called employees, and are called “partners." Even Starbucks corporate headquarters, also named Starbucks
Support Center, indicates that its function is to provide information and support to employees rather than give
orders to the staff.


Starbucks pay incentives not only to improve the income of employees, but also to enhance the culture and values
of the company, reducing staff turnover. According to the survey, Starbucks staff turnover rate is about one-third
of its peers; the staff likes to work for Starbucks very much. As Schultz had said, using effective incentive
mechanism and showing respect for employees can make us earn more money, make the company more
competitive, why not we try to do it. [ [14] ]


58


_International Journal of Business and Social Science                            Vol. 5, No. 6(1); May 2014_


**Figure 1: Starbucks 2012 Statistical Tables ESOP and Benefit Plans**

|Employee Stock And Benefit Plans|Oct.02,2011|Oct.03,2010|Sep.27,2009|
|---|---|---|---|
|Expected term(in years)|5.0|4.7|4.9|
|Expected stock price volatility|39.00%|43.00%|44.50%|
|Risk-free interest rate|1.60%|2.10%|2.20%|
|Expected dividend yield|1.70%|0.10%|0.00%|
|Weighted average option grant price|$31.46|$22.28|$8.97|
|Estimated fair value per option granted|$9.58|$8.50|$3.61|



Source: secdatabase.com


From the above data we can see Starbucks employee stock ownership plan every year and enhance the welfare in
different magnitudes, the staff truly become the company's partner, rather than talking about it like other
companies.


When we see Starbucks success, someone often ask the real fulcrum behind the success of Starbucks, and the
"ESOP" is the "skin" or "core" in company’s management on earth? For this problem, Wang Jin long, president of
Starbucks Asia Pacific, said it well, for Starbucks, what truly plays roles is not to speak of his many skills in
specific holdings, more importantly, because Starbucks employees’ holdings deemed indispensable values of
enterprises, considered the soul of the enterprise, and consistently persevered. Because of this corporate soul, so
companies in the event of adverse business environment, under the low price of the atmosphere, there is no
change in the established strategic corporate employee-owned, because the soul of this enterprise, the value of
employees can be deferred until the customer to obtain value of the body, beyond the imagination of the customer
resulting feedback. This is why entering to the cafe is not very difficult; Starbucks still set up the difficult barriers
which is hard to break through for competitors to stop their entrance.


External competitors may not be able to see the success of Starbucks, which at the time would not be able to get a
shortcut to catch up. Even competitors realize the importance of reflecting the value of the service industry
employee-owned cafe in, but if you do not mind sharing with employees and courage, even in the mode of
replication may be beyond all alone, imagine, in China How many food service employees can float boss opened
the hearts of it? Meanwhile, competitors have even ESOP design, with full share of mind; the ability to adhere to
this concept is still in difficult a time is a big test.


After the 2009 financial crisis, Starbucks faced up with the most difficult stage in the development, when
someone proposed to cut staff benefits options, however, the person who advise this idea get the answer is, "If
you think so, you can quit Starbucks." Because Starbucks regards business people as the highest ideas, and it
makes Starbucks to find the soul again, then the stock value has grown 114% since October 2010.


An interesting story happened a few years ago, when the scale of Starbucks' business in the rapidly expanding
around the world every day four Starbucks store openings. Media hopes to learn the secret of success of Starbucks
expansion strategy, however, the incumbent CEO, Schultz said, "as a good businessman art reflected in two
aspects: First, to maintain standards-based products, is speaking for Starbucks coffee; two is necessary to develop
new products and services, not make the impact of new products and services over the base product. "However,
Schultz's answer did not get public recognition, but was widely regarded as" prevarication "Media coat, Informed
sources said that "employee stock ownership plan of coffee" is the secret of Starbucks global expansion. A few
years later, Schultz Starbucks talk about the essence of time management, respect for employees to put the most
central location, and in this respect is clearly beyond the general ESOP brings simple property gains, while is
related to the employee's spiritual dimension.


"Most consumer brands are spending millions of dollars doing the market, advertise, do marketing, but in fact we
have no money to advertise when we just started doing Starbucks, our marketing is the user's experience, and this
Experience does not come from Starbucks senior management, but from those around the green apron partner,
they are the real image of the company, they are really representative of the Starbucks brand.”Schultz said.
This may be regarded as the origin of Starbucks employees plan, this high degree of awareness of the value of
employees to ensure that the maximum value of the employee's largest mining and feedback. [ [10] ]


59


_**©**_ _Center for Promoting Ideas, USA                                                www.ijbssnet.com_


**2.3 Employees 'Appreciation' Training**


Employees both internal marketing of the participants, but also the internal marketing of the object, the level of
skills of the strength of Staff, are the elements of customer value constraints. Therefore, companies must strive to
improve internal marketing staff quality through training. Special attention should be paid to the direct contact
with the front-line customer service staff training, because they not only direct contact with the customer, but also
directly participate in service marketing campaigns, corporate image and quality of service, mainly through their
reflected. When training for front-line staffs, both to make them fully understand and appreciate the overall
objective of corporate marketing services, and enhance their sense of responsibility for customer service, but also
to cultivate their dealings with customers and establish good relations with customers of high-level skills. For
some employees with special functions, you need to increase according to the nature of work they are engaged in
a number of specialized training to help them acquire special skills of communication and services necessary for
the work.


Starbucks believes that their product is not only coffee, but the coffee shop experience the culture. Starbucks is
one of the main competitive strategy is to communicate with customers in coffee shops, coffee is particularly
important that communicate with customers among students. Starbucks employees for each job title have a
corresponding training new staff to be very aware of their future career development. Because a shop roughly
divided into four staff positions, from duty, the duty manager, store assistant manager, store manager, every
job has a clear job skill requirements, employees can communicate through the store manager and more aware of
their to develop future direction . Each book a goal, they must accept different jobs’ training, but also because of
this, most store managers are promoted from within the organization came up. At work, training and promotion
process, employees affected by the environment and the system will produce autonomous learning attitude and
are willing to work. Store managers help employees grow, and they teach the skills to workers which is the most
appropriate, they are not explained by the teacher. Because of this, the store manager must be certified four
courses, as well as internal instructor certification training program, know how to give the students the correct
feedback in the classroom, through observation, can specifically state the facts, conduct, within a short time on the
see the staff excellent, vulnerable. Store managers can work from a high transparency function description,
determine what kind of person suitable to accept what training and subordinates also understand if they get
promoted, which must receive training, and then finally in charge of the company's Web site to help subordinates
enrollment.


Starbucks give all new hires to learn four core courses, including Starbucks Experience, coffee exchanges, and
service skills, bar technology. These four training is planned for staff duties. Through this program, employees
can learn about the cultural and history of the organization, which also teach employees to use a set of core tools
to reinforce the importance of interpersonal communication, they nicknamed " Star tool", and using this tool,
when they faced with partners, can strengthen mutual respect concepts repetitively, and this feeling of respect for
humanity, will naturally comes out in communication from person to person, the customer can feel respected
feeling at the time of service coming from the staff only when they are at a door. Chairman Howard Schultz has
said that Starbucks are engaged in a “man’s industry”, not coffee products, but to provide good coffee to serve
people, so he teaches employees how to love coffee, coffee understanding, sharing coffee knowledge. "Coffee
Learning Passport” is a coffee expert staff to become learning manual. Employees follow the learning path, set
aside ten minutes a day, and eat, discuss coffee. Coffee from accumulating knowledge, virtually and customers,
partners, family members discuss coffee, form a unique Starbucks coffee culture, organizational naturally exudes
a strong coffee experience. [[14] ]


With the acceleration of making China the world's second home market, Starbucks said in Beijing on April 18
announced a series of new programs designed to further highlight this important market in China has become the
best advantage of the employer. The staff for the (partner) investment initiatives and commitment to build a
prosperous community of Starbucks, the company will continue to push forward with the rapid development over
the past decade in China.


Starbucks President and CEO Howard Schultz to visit Beijing and Shanghai, Starbucks partners and their families
on the forum were held in two places, to communicate with nearly 1,200 partners and families exchange. In "Star
and the future, you and I together," as the theme of this forum, the first time in the company's history, and family
as the most important Chinese traditional culture fit, and further emphasizes the Starbucks on the growth and
development partners to help commitment.


60


_International Journal of Business and Social Science                            Vol. 5, No. 6(1); May 2014_


Mr. Howard Schultz at the forum said: "Our partners are the heart and soul of the iconic Starbucks experience,
each of them with the customer to establish an emotional connection to a large extent, the success lay with
Starbucks. We continue to develop in the Chinese market, we want to share the success with every partner and
their families grow together. "


China is the focus of Starbucks to expand its international business, now has more than 570 stores in China and
plans to achieve the 2015 operations in more than 70 cities in China more than 1,500 stores goals. To achieve the
ambitious blueprint for the development of Starbucks in China continue to guarantee to provide customers a
unique, authentic Starbucks experience, and these companies built on passion and strong leadership of the coffee
market, attracting and nurturing the talents of a composed Starbucks strong team is a top priority . To this end,
Starbucks will launch a series of new programs for partners; expect to create the best working environment for
them, including a new learning and development concept one Starbucks China University.


"Starbucks in China's development ushered in a very exciting historical period, which gives us the partner, also
brought unprecedented opportunities and bright prospects for development." Miss Wang Jingying, Starbucks
president of China, said: " With Starbucks in China market on the continuous development, we hope to be able to
partner with Starbucks to grow hand in hand, we will increase investment, to ensure that partners can acquire
skills in the career development needs, to help them better grasp on Starbucks new career opportunities Starbucks
is committed to helping our partners to maximize the potential of each one to achieve career goals and aspirations
. " in addition to partners who invest, Starbucks is also committed to helping the local community development,
and to ensure that this is another company important aspect of China's continued development. In 2011, through
various community service projects, Starbucks partners and customers in mainland China contributed about
25,000 hours of community service time. [ [13] ]


**3. Starbucks Employees Operating Philosophy to Chinese Enterprises Inspiration**


Starbucks operations on the staff for a very important position, and the perseverance to implement this concept:


1. The staff is the best advertising


The employees are the first line of the best brand ambassadors and endorsers. Only employees satisfied in order
with the greatest enthusiasm and the best service to establish a good reputation among customers. In the case of
Starbucks, generous benefits to employees, for example, all employees, including part-time staff are enjoying
complete health insurance. This will not only retain the talent, but also improve the loyalty of employees, so that
employees “really like to work at Starbucks.”


2. Employees are partners


Employees are not corporate money machine, employees are partners. Under Schultz’s initiative, Starbucks
started in 1991 stock option plan “bean stock ", all employees working for six months, including part-time staff
can get allotment, become a shareholder, partner. This initiative enables businesses reflect the mutual
understanding and encourage respect for cultural, staff time to work in the best condition, full of passion for the
guests. Thus, the attitude of the staff becomes masters of Starbucks competitive advantage. Starbucks establish a
good relationship with customers, with a large number of loyal customers; they are all over the world.


3. Training for staff


Emphasis on staff training, access to business development continued growth from ongoing staff training and
counseling. Starbucks for new employees within the first month post who can get at least 24 hours of training,
including business philosophy, customer service skills, work skills, such as in-store ; addition to a wide range of
management training programs, focusing on training leadership skills, customer service and career development
. Starbucks to provide staff with a lot of core training and service skills for staff career development services,
even if one day I hope the employees left the Starbucks, Starbucks experience will also allow him ( her ) to
benefit from the employee's point total is to have a multiplier effect.


Starbucks "people-oriented” management style as Starbucks brought huge returns. On Wall Street, Starbucks has
created the myth of the first rank, and its return on equity has exceeded Wal-Mart, General Electric, Pepsi, CocaCola, Microsoft and IBM 's total return . [[16] ]


61


_**©**_ _Center for Promoting Ideas, USA                                                www.ijbssnet.com_


Prior to CCTV reported that a cup of Starbucks latte cup prices up to 27 yuan in Beijing, the four survey areas in
the highest price; another set of data is displayed in the Chinese market, Starbucks profit up 31%, this reported in
the media sector and led to divergent views on the Internet, Starbucks has been criticized for high prices and
profits, it was also behind, saying that high prices in line with market rules. Analysts pointed out that CCTV is
more rational cost analysis of Starbucks coffee shop rents mainly ignored in many hard costs.


The debate about the controversial incident continues, but the event reflecting the issues is consumer culture and
brand building which is also attracted people's attention and reflection. Insiders express their views known about
Starbucks, we focus on it in the past six years, its share price doubled 12 times compare to the current market
value of the equivalent Baidu Company. A cruel fact is that we have companies like Alibaba, Tencent, Baidu who
do not lose this American technology, but there is no bands like McDonald's, Starbucks, Coca-Cola. Starbucks
brand and market success reflects China's outstanding beverage brands missing.


Milk, tea worth learning "Starbucks" coffee is downright exotic, put "petty bourgeoisie" after coat is rampant in
China at high prices. On the face of the invasion of food culture, health, nutrition is the core value of
"quintessence" drink milk, tea and promote healthy regimen have been a huge shock, how to add fresh blood in
the traditional drink culture to make it more suitable for young consumer psychology who has become a new test
industry.


Starbucks had a market research and analyzing apartment, pointed out that the high price of Starbucks, largely
thanks to its casual comfort and Petty's mood, by passing the value of this kind of life and consumption concept,
Starbucks created a good brand premium space. And the so–called health drink includes milk, juice, tea and
others, has not yet formed the brand to compete with the Starbucks, from this point of view; China's enterprises do
have to learn.


Traditional drinks look brand operation and experiential marketing, in fact, coffee is essential Westerners
breakfast drink milk breakfast is the Chinese people in the "standard." Nutritional and health value of milk has
long been widely recognized. In recent years, the United States began to recommend relevant institutions "coffee
beans" to enhance the daily food intake of legumes, soy visible representative of a healthier and nutritious
consumption concept. In fact, the price of milk in the United States, Japan, Southeast Asia and other regions far
more than milk, or even claim to be an aristocratic drink. In contrast, the tea is mainly in retail and restaurants as
the main mode, due to the fragmented nature of the restaurant, it is difficult to copy features; it is difficult
reputation of both the market and the emergence of big brands.


With the continuous development of China's casual dining industry, such as milk, tea drinks such traditional
experience if we can combine modern sales model with brand operation, it will be promising. I have seen a
company called soy bean store numbers, store style and atmosphere are very casual and comfortable, and it’s
feeling like Starbucks Gunman area, left a deep impression to people. If you like this store beans can grow and
expand brand operation, perhaps one day, the parties both events can be turned to allow Americans to explore the
concept of traditional Chinese drinks and patterns.


Prices reflect the supply and demand relationship, Starbucks has its own pricing power and it is understandable,
for this event, rational thinking should not be tangled to the price, but to reflect on our own catering business
when to make like Starbucks this brand? Even take an advantage in foreign markets, so that make the Chinese
traditional food culture develop to be the excellent products in the worldwide? [ [17]]


62


_International Journal of Business and Social Science                            Vol. 5, No. 6(1); May 2014_


_**References**_

Ma Lan the principle of "people oriented" [J].shanghai Quality ， 2012(10)
Webster, Richard. Beverly Stryker, Starbucks Coffee Company -- Stryker took pains to convince her staff that the

aim of the quality assurance program was not to spy on employees, but to improve customer interactions

[J]. Call Center Magazine, 2006(11)
http://finance.sina.com.cn/leadership/mroll/20130104/153214184586.shtml
Anonymous. SHARE SCHEMES: Starbucks awards UK staff #4 million worth of shares [J]. Employee Benefits,

2011(10)
Carter, Chelsea J. Starbucks staff owed back tips, state judge rules [J]. Oakland Tribune, 2008
"Union to represent staff at Vancouver Starbucks." _Nation's Restaurant News_ 18 May 1998: 4.
Schurz. Success is earned by oneself [J]. Business Weekly,2012 （ 18 ）
Anna Robaton. Big Shot of the Coffee Chains-Starbucks Coffee Co. has Emerged from the Recession with Social

Commitment [J]. International Business, 2013(5)
Wang Lanxia. University library sets up "third space" thinking - by Starbucks experience about [J]. New Century

Library, 2013 （） 9
Qu LiLi. It is very important to run the heart [J]. Business, 2012 (6)
Zhang Chong chao. Analysis of the Impacts of Enterprise Image on Customer Loyalty---A case study of

Starbucks in China[J]. Journal of Nei jiang Teachers College, 2012,27(2)
Wang Xuzhen. How to contact the emotional connection between the brand and the user -- analysis of Starbucks

successful cases[J]. DONGJING WENXUE, 2010 (10)
Chen Yiming. Deepen the local Starbucks commitment to best employer will set up [J]. China university human

resources management, 2012 (5)
Wang Huamin. About Starbucks' internal marketing [J].Enterprise Reform and Management, 2008 (4)
Zhao Yang. Starbucks enterprise incentive system[J]. Global market information review, 2012 (18)
Zhang Shouji. Starbucks "people oriented"[J].Enterprise reform and management, 2005 (5)
Shang Xiangdong. Starbucks humanized marketing strategy analysis [J].Economic Tribune, 2013 (1)
Qianzhi. Starbucks indicating its employees to work a little slower [J].English salon (fashion), 2010 (12)
WenGuiSheng. The cup of coffee’s mission[J]. Brilliance, 2012 (10)
HuYongjun, WangQihua. About One-to-one marketing [J].ENTERPRISE MANAGEMENT, 2003 (1)
Seock Y K. Influence of retail store environmental cues on consumer patronage behavior across different retail

store formats: An empirical analysis of US Hispanic consumers [J].Journal of Retailing and Consumer
Services, 2009, 16(5):329—339
Choi D H, Kim C M, Kim S and Kim S H. Customer loyalty and disloyalty in Internet Retail Stores: Its

Antecedents and its effect on customer price sensitivity[J].International Journal of
Management,2006,23(4):925—943
Orth U R 8L Green M T. Consumer loyalty to family versus non—family business: the roles of store image, trust

and satisfaction [J].Journal of Retailing and Consumer Services, 2009, 16(4):248—259
Park K W,Park J Y. Shopping Value, Shopping Goal and Wom Focused on Electronic goods Buyers[J] ． Journal

of Global Academy of Marketing Science,2009,19(2):68—79
DaryantoA, RuyterK, Wetzel’s Meta1.Service firms and customer loyalty programs: a regulatory fit perspective

of reward preferences in a health club setting[J] ． NAL OF THE ACADEM Y OF MARKETING
9CIENCE.2010, 38(5):604—616
Lai F J, Griffin M and Babin B J. How quality, value, image, and satisfaction create loyalty at a Chinese telecom

Journal of Business Research, 2009, 62(10):980—986
Wang C Y. Service quality, perceived value, corporate image, and customer loyalty in the context of varying

levels of switching costs[J].Psychology and Marketing,2010,27(3):252—262
Dowling G. Creating corporate reputations: identity, image and performance [M] Oxford:Oxford University

Press,2002
Cornelissen J P. Corporate communication: A guide to theory and practice [M] London: SAGE, 201l
Ndubisi N O. Relationship marketing and customer loyalty. Marketing Intelligence& Planning, 2007, 25(1):98106


63


