_**ABOUT THIS REPORT**_


_**The information in this Report**_
_**is for fiscal year 2001 (October 2,**_
_**2000, through September 30, 2001)**_
_**and covers Starbucks company-**_
_**operated retail and distribution**_
_**operations in North America and**_
_**sourcing activities in coffee-origin**_
_**countries. Other than some**_

_**company-wide financial**_
_**information, Starbucks specialty**_
_**operations and international retail**_
_**markets are not included in this**_

_**Report. Starbucks North American**_
_**operations include Canada and the**_
_**U.S., excluding Hawaii.**_


_**Howard Schultz**_



At Starbucks, the choices we make and actions we take are

a reflection of our core values. To become what Starbucks is

today—the leading retailer, roaster and brand of specialty coffee—
took the vision to create a values-driven coffee company inspired
by passion, dedicated to quality and guided by exceptionally
strong principles.


Starbucks aspires to be recognized as much for our commitment
to social responsibility as we are for the quality of our coffee.
We’ve focused our efforts on improving social and economic
conditions for coffee farmers; minimizing our environmental
impact; making a positive contribution in the communities where
we do business; and providing a great work environment for our
partners (employees).


Throughout our 30-year history, we have been committed to social
responsibility. Today, with the strength of our brand in the
marketplace, Starbucks has an opportunity to lead by example.
Our responsibility starts with being accountable to Starbucks
stakeholders—our partners, customers, shareholders, suppliers,
community members and others—and communicating openly
about our business practices and performance. We are, therefore,
publishing our first annual Corporate Social Responsibility Report
to communicate the way we do business.


Our goal throughout this Report is to provide information to our
stakeholders about our policies and practices, and to provide,
when possible, measures of our performance. By publishing this
Report, Starbucks joins a small but growing number of companies
that are assessing their corporate citizenship, taking measures
to provide transparency on performance and being accountable
to stakeholders. We realize that every day we must conduct our
business in ways that earn your admiration and trust. We hope
this Report helps us to do just that.



Warm regards,


Howard Schultz Orin C. Smith

chairman and president and

_**Orin Smith**_ chief global strategist chief executive officer


## _Table of Contents_

**RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS PRACTICES**


3 The Business Case for Social Responsibility


3 Sustainability is Essential to Our Success


4 Sourcing in Origin Countries


5 Social Investments in Origin Countries


6 Commitment to Origins


8 Minimizing Our Environmental Impact


11 Working with Our Suppliers


13 Listening to Our Stakeholders


**INVESTING IN OUR COMMUNITIES**


17 Part of the Neighborhood


18 Community Investments


21 The Starbucks Foundation


**INVESTING IN OUR PARTNERS**


23 Creating a Strong Workplace Environment



_**Starbucks Mission Statement**_


_To establish Starbucks as the premier_
_purveyor of the finest coffee in the world_
_while maintaining our uncompromising_
_principles as we grow._


_The following six guiding principles will_
_help us measure the appropriateness of_
_our decisions:_


_• Provide a great work environment_
_and treat each other with respect_
_and dignity._


_• Embrace diversity as an essential_
_component in the way we do business._


_• Apply the highest standards of_
_excellence to the purchasing,roasting_
_and fresh delivery of our coffee._


_• Develop enthusiastically satisfied_
_customers all of the time._


_• Contribute positively to our_
_communities and our environment._


_• Recognize that profitability is_
_essential to our future success._


# _Responsible_ _Business Practices_

**THE BUSINESS CASE FOR SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY**


Starbucks defines corporate social responsibility as conducting our business in ways
that produce social, environmental and economic benefits to the communities in
which we operate. In the end, it means being responsible to our stakeholders.


There is growing recognition of the need for corporate accountability. Consumers
are demanding more than “product” from their favorite brands. Employees are
choosing to work for companies with strong values. Shareholders are more inclined
to invest in businesses with outstanding corporate reputations. Quite simply, being
socially responsible is not only the right thing to do; it can distinguish a company
from its industry peers.


Given that there are positive returns for being a socially responsible company,
Starbucks believes it makes sense to view our actions in terms of investments. By
investing in sustainable business practices and the origin countries that provide our
coffees, we encourage a continued high-quality supply. In the communities where we
do business, we invest in local organizations to improve the quality of life. And by
investing in our partners, through competitive wage and benefit structures, and
opportunity for stock ownership, we have an edge in attracting and retaining
qualified, productive employees—and that helps reduce our hiring, training and
other turnover costs.


In the end, there is no conflict between doing good and doing well.At Starbucks, we
believe the two go together.


**SUSTAINABILITY IS ESSENTIAL TO OUR SUCCESS**


Coffee is second only to water as the world’s most popular drink, with more than
400 billion cups consumed every year. Coffee is a giant industry employing 20
million people globally, and ranks as the second most traded commodity on the
planet after petroleum.


Traditionally, Starbucks has purchased our coffees at premiums over the world’s
commodity market prices (or the “New York C,” which is the worldwide reference
used by coffee traders for commodity-grade coffee).The premiums we pay vary by
the type of coffee, as well as the overall quality of that particular coffee, relative to
the quality of “New York C” commodity-grade.


During the past year, a worldwide surplus of coffee has dramatically reduced
wholesale prices.At the end of fiscal 2001, prices paid for coffee on the “New York
C” had dipped to $0.48/lb—a level not seen in nearly 30 years.



_CSR Fiscal 2001 Report_ **3**


_**COMPANY PROFILE**_


_**Fiscal 2001—October 2,2000 to**_
_**September 30,2001:**_


_(Information below represents total_
_company unless noted)_


_Total net revenues:$2.6 billion_


_Net earnings:$181 million_


_Earnings per share:$0.46_


_Total income taxes:$108 million_


_Stock price (high/low):$25/$14_


_Number of company-operated_
_locations:2,971 (North America)_


_Number of partners (employees):_
_54,000 (North America)_


_Location of Starbucks corporate_
_headquarters:Seattle_


_Opposite page (top)—Starbucks Coffee_
_Company worldwide headquarters,known_
_within the company as the Starbucks_
_Support Center,located in Seattle._


_Opposite page (bottom)—El Triunfo_
_Biosphere Reserve,Chiapas,Mexico,_
_where Starbucks Shade Grown Mexico_
_coffee is produced._


_Mary Williams,Starbucks senior vice_
_president of coffee,meets with Hector_
_Cortez in the Atitlan region of_
_Guatemala while on one of her many_
_coffee buying trips._



This price drop affects all growers, particularly those with small family farms that
produce nearly three-fourths of the world’s coffee supply. Starbucks purchases our
coffee from many of these small, multigeneration farms, paying premium prices that
enable farmers to provide for their families and maintain their family farms. As
Starbucks business expands, so does our need for the coffee they grow.


While Starbucks purchases about one percent of the global coffee supply, our
purchases are for only the highest quality arabica coffee beans grown in the world.
Because of Starbucks exceptionally high standards for quality coffee, one of our most
critical needs is to secure a long-term supply of unroasted “green” coffee from the
farmers we know and trust.The sustainability of their farms is intrinsically linked to

our success.


Starbucks recognizes the importance of helping to ensure that coffee farmers have a
sustainable livelihood. To address this challenge, we have moved away from “New
York C”-based formula pricing, focusing on several strategies including:


- Securing more contracts based on outright, negotiated prices.

- Negotiating more long-term contracts.

- Increasing the amount of coffee purchased directly from farms and cooperatives.

- Assisting coffee farmers in gaining access to affordable credit.

- Introducing new coffee sourcing guidelines that reward farmers for using
sustainable growing practices.

- Offering financial support for health and educational projects that directly benefit
farmers and their communities.

- Expanding our sustainable coffee category, “Commitment to Origins,” including
Shade Grown Mexico and Fair Trade Certified coffees.







**SOURCING IN ORIGIN COUNTRIES**


Starbucks helps farmers improve their standard of living while ensuring a sustainable
supply of high-quality coffee by purchasing at outright prices, signing long-term
contracts and buying directly from farms and cooperatives (co-ops). For the coffee
Starbucks purchased in fiscal 2001 and the contracts that Starbucks has negotiated
for coffee purchases in fiscal 2002, Starbucks pays an average price of $1.20 per
pound, excluding freight, for green coffee purchased in these ways.









**Outright Prices**
Coffee prices can be negotiated either at outright prices or in relationship to the
prevailing wholesale price. Starbucks preference today is to source coffee at outright
prices.This provides stability and predictability for both buyers and sellers. In fiscal
2001, 12 percent of Starbucks coffee supply was purchased at outright prices. For
the orders we placed in fiscal 2001 that will be delivered in fiscal 2002, 74 percent
of our green coffee will be purchased at outright prices.


**Long-Term Contracts**
Long-term contracts with suppliers benefit both producers and Starbucks. Farmers
are guaranteed attractive prices over multiple crop years, and Starbucks is able to
secure future coffee supplies at predictable costs. During fiscal 2001, nearly three
percent of Starbucks total supply of coffee was delivered through long-term
contracts. For fiscal 2002 delivery, Starbucks has been able to increase the amount
of coffee purchased under long-term contracts, negotiated at outright prices, to
31 percent.


**Direct Purchasing**
Small to midsize farms and co-ops provide most of the coffee beans for Starbucks
coffees.We have visited many of these farms and built relationships with the growers.
In fiscal 2001, nine percent of our total coffee supply was purchased directly from
farms and co-ops, which ensured that more of the purchase price went to the
farmers. Of the orders we’ve placed for fiscal 2002 delivery, 59 percent will be
supplied directly from farms and co-ops and negotiated at outright prices.


**Access to Credit**

Cash flow is a critical issue for small farms. Farmers have little access to credit at
competitive rates and are often forced to sell their crops prior to harvest. In fiscal
2001, Starbucks made $150,000 available through Ecologic Enterprise Ventures and
the Conservation International (CI) Foundation to help sustain Mexican coffee
farmers with pre- and post-harvest loans. This was augmented with $250,000 in
post-harvest capital from CI’s Conservation Enterprise Fund.


In fiscal 2002, Starbucks will help make $500,000 available to farmers through
Ecologic Enterprise Ventures and the CI Foundation. An additional $1 million will
be directed through Calvert Community Investments to provide credit at favorable
rates to coffee farmers for their use in quality improvements and capital investments.


**Coffee Sourcing Guidelines**
At the end of fiscal 2001,Starbucks introduced new coffee sourcing guidelines developed
in partnership with The Center for Environmental Leadership in Business, a new
division of Conservation International.This represents a first for the coffee industry.


The guidelines involve a flexible point system coupled with financial incentives,
rewarding coffee suppliers who meet strict environmental, social, economic and
quality standards. Ultimately, coffee suppliers can earn preferred status with our
coffee buyers. Because significant changes in origin countries require flexibility and
patience, the guidelines are being introduced as a pilot program for the 2002 and
2003 crop years.


**SOCIAL INVESTMENTS IN ORIGIN COUNTRIES**


One of the guiding principles in Starbucks mission statement is that the company
will “contribute positively to our communities and our environment.” We’re
committed to addressing social and environmental issues that affect the people and
places that produce our coffees.


Through partnerships with organizations that share our concerns,we’re able to make
a difference in coffee-origin countries. We make long-term investments, such
as building schools, health clinics, and coffee processing facilities to improve the
well-being of families in coffee farming communities.


**CARE**

Our alliance with CARE, a nonprofit international relief and development
organization, began in 1991. CARE connects us to parts of the world where our help
can directly impact communities and provide needed relief in coffee- and tea-origin
countries. In fiscal 2001, Starbucks contributed $120,000 to CARE. Over the years,
Starbucks has contributed or helped raise more than $1.8 million for CARE
programs, and touched the lives of approximately 2.7 million people in Africa, Latin
America, and Southeast Asia. Starbucks continues to be one of CARE’s largest North
American corporate contributors.



_CSR Fiscal 2001 Report_ **5**


_In fiscal 2001,Starbucks helped to_
_provide loans to 516 small family_
_farmers in Chiapas,Mexico.This_
_financing enabled these farmers to sell_
_more than 350,000 pounds of coffee at_
_favorable prices._


_In fiscal 2001,Starbucks provided_
_$43,500 toward building a health clinic_
_and school in Guatemala and a health_

_clinic in East Timor.Here a local_
_Guatemalan doctor examines her patient._


_Starbucks retail partner Mathias Eichler_
_stands behind our promotion of Starbucks_
_Shade Grown Mexico coffee._













_In fiscal 2001,Starbucks invested_
_$327,500 in CI’s Conservation Coffee_
_program.These funds will help CI develop_
_five new model projects in Latin America,_
_Asia and Africa.This commitment of funds_
_builds on the success Starbucks and CI_
_achieved in Chiapas,Mexico,in preserving_
_areas of high biodiversity and providing_
_economic opportunities for small-scale_
_farmers.In addition,Starbucks president_
_and CEO Orin Smith provides his_
_leadership and expertise to CI as a_
_member of CI’s Board of Directors._



**COMMITMENT TO ORIGINS**


One method to help ensure the social, economic and environmental sustainability of
the farms that produce coffee is to purchase organic, Shade Grown Mexico and Fair
Trade Certified coffees.These special coffees, which are independently certified or
verified as such, are included in Starbucks Commitment to Origins category.


Starbucks Organic Costa Rica is certified and labeled as organic by Eco-Logica, an
independent organic certification organization. Organic certification ensures
consumers that the coffee has been grown without the use of synthetic chemicals for
the prior three years. Due to the lengthy process and the cost of certification, many
farmers from whom we purchase don’t pursue certification, although their coffee is
grown using traditional methods and without the use of herbicides and pesticides.


Starbucks offers Shade Grown Mexico coffee through a partnership with
Conservation International and offers Fair Trade Certified coffee as part of our
alliance with TransFair USA.


**Shade Grown Mexico Coffee**

Starbucks and Conservation International (CI) formed a partnership in 1998 to
encourage the production of shade-grown coffee using ecologically sound growing
practices that help protect biodiversity, and provide economic opportunities for
small farmers.


CI has been a tremendous resource in this effort, enabling Starbucks to purchase
Shade Grown Mexico coffee through CI’s Conservation Coffee Program. In 2000,
Starbucks and CI renewed this partnership for another three years at a commitment
of at least $200,000 annually.


Although this is the only coffee that Starbucks identifies as “shade-grown,” our coffee
buyers estimate that roughly one-third of all Starbucks coffee is traditionally grown
under the canopy of shade trees in tropical forests.


As a result of the Starbucks/CI partnership:


- Starbucks offered Shade Grown Mexico coffee through our U.S. companyoperated stores and on www.starbucks.com for the third year in a row.

- Farmers supplying Shade Grown Mexico received a 60 percent price premium
over local prices for their coffee.

- The amount of shade-grown coffee being exported in 2001 has increased by 50
percent over the previous year.

- Since 1998, coffee-growing land preserved as tropical forests has increased by
220 percent.

Future Starbucks/CI goals include:


- Developing new CI Conservation Coffee projects in places where biodiversity is
under severe threat. These include locations in Guatemala and Colombia, and
later other coffee-growing regions around the world.

- Expanding the supply of shade-grown coffee to meet consumer demand and
ensure year-round availability.

- Engaging leaders from the coffee world to collaborate on industry-wide
guidelines for environmental and social quality.


**Fair Trade Certified Coffee**

In the Fair Trade system, farmers form and participate in democratically run
cooperatives that, in turn, may sell their beans directly to importers, roasters and
retailers at favorable guaranteed prices. The minimum fair trade price the buyer
currently pays for non-organic green coffee is $1.26/lb and $1.41/lb for organic
green coffee. Consumers are assured when they purchase Fair Trade Certified coffee
that the farmers received a guaranteed minimum price for their coffee that helps
support a better life for family farmers.


In April 2000, Starbucks signed a historic agreement with TransFair USA, a nonprofit
organization that provides independent certification for all Fair Trade coffee in the
U.S. Since that time, the number of companies offering Fair Trade coffee has more
than tripled.As a result of our partnership with TransFair USA:


- Starbucks agreed to purchase Fair Trade Certified coffee,which meets our quality
standards, to fulfill consumer demand.

- Starbucks introduced Fair Trade Certified coffee to our product line on
October 4, 2000, with a promotional campaign that included custom packaging,
in-store signage, brochures, and information on www.starbucks.com.

- Shortly thereafter, Starbucks expanded the availability of Fair Trade Certified
coffee by making it available to our university, hotel and restaurant accounts.
Demand tripled for Fair Trade Certified coffee in the university market segment
in fiscal 2001.

- In April 2001, Starbucks launched a second five-week promotional campaign to
build awareness for Fair Trade Certified coffee and offered it as our “Coffee of the
Day” on May 18, 2001, for the first time.

- In fiscal 2001, Starbucks purchased 653,000 pounds of Fair Trade Certified
coffee and sold 186,000 pounds of this coffee to our customers under the Fair
Trade label.

In September 2001, Starbucks announced the expansion of Starbucks Fair Trade
Certified coffee program, with plans to purchase one million pounds of Fair Trade
Certified coffee during the next 12 to 18 months that will result in:


- More colleges and universities brewing Fair Trade Certified coffee as their core
offering.

- Starbucks U.S. company-operated stores brewing Fair Trade Certified coffee as
the “Coffee of the Day” once a month beginning in spring 2002.

- The introduction of Fair Trade Certified coffee in Canada and the international
markets where we do business.



_CSR Fiscal 2001 Report_ **7**

_which can be purchased in our company-_
_operated U.S.stores and on_
_www.starbucks.com._


_**Starbucks Environmental**_

_**Mission Statement**_


_Starbucks is committed to a role of_
_environmental leadership in all facets of_
_our business._

_We will fulfill this mission by a_
_commitment to:_

_• Understanding environmental issues_
_and sharing information with our_
_partners._

_• Developing innovative and flexible_
_solutions to bring about change._

_• Striving to buy,sell and use_
_environmentally friendly products._

_• Recognizing that fiscal responsibility_
_is essential to our environmental_
_future._

_• Instilling environmental responsibility_
_as a corporate value._

_• Measuring and monitoring our_
_progress for each project._

_• Encouraging all partners to share in_
_our mission._



**MINIMIZING OUR ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT**


In 1992, Starbucks became a publicly traded company. Shortly thereafter, a crossfunctional team of Starbucks partners adopted an environmental mission statement.
What evolved was an Environmental Affairs team that seeks to develop environmentally
responsible policies and procedures. As new environmental issues arise, this group
examines our current measures and identifies opportunities for improvement.


**Environmental Footprint Analysis**
To determine our environmental impact, or “footprint,” as a company, in fiscal 2001
Starbucks worked with The Natural Step,a nonprofit consulting and education group
helping organizations take steps toward sustainability.We analyzed Starbucks supply
chain—from coffee bean to coffee cup—looking for opportunities to make our
footprint smaller.


Throughout the process, we focused on achievable measures that could significantly
reduce our footprint or environmental impact. Some solutions were obvious, such
as addressing packaging, energy, waste, and recycling issues. Other measures are
more challenging but necessary if we are serious about demonstrating
environmental leadership.
Thus, our efforts are focused on four areas:

- Coffee, tea and paper sourcing

- Transportation impacts (people and goods)

- Electricity, gas and water use

- Store design and operations
Starbucks identified ways to measure our performance for each focus area and
developed specific initiatives to improve our resource efficiency.The data captured
at the end of fiscal 2000 serves as our baseline.


**Sourcing**
Environmental impacts associated with sourcing coffee, tea and paper include
damage to forests caused by growing coffee, the use of pesticides and herbicides in
coffee and tea production, and the waste generated from paper production, just to
name a few. For coffee, the performance metric we use is expressed in the number
of pounds we purchase of sustainable coffees—Starbucks Organic Certified Costa
Rica, Shade Grown Mexico and Fair Trade Certified. For tea, the performance


















_CSR Fiscal 2001 Report_ **9**



metric we use is the percentage of organic tea we purchase of our total tea purchases.
And for paper, we measure the amount of post-consumer and unbleached fiber
content in paper as a percentage of all the paper fiber we purchase.


**Transportation**
The burning of fossil fuels while transporting raw materials, products and people
is a significant contributor to global warming and other environmental concerns.
Our present focus is on improving fuel efficiency for the modest fleet of shuttle
vans, trucks and other vehicles Starbucks owns and operates. The metric used is
the average miles per gallon (mpg) for our company-owned fleet. Our baseline is
17.48 mpg.


Several years ago we established the Transportation Options Program (TOP) to help
our partners find commuting alternatives to and from Starbucks headquarters.The
program provides subsidies to partners who use commuting alternatives in an effort
to reduce traffic congestion,air pollution and minimize other environmental impacts
associated with driving cars. Approximately 500 of our 2000 corporate Starbucks
partners used alternative commuting options such as biking, carpooling or public
transit in fiscal 2001. Starbucks received King County’s local Commuter Challenge
Diamond Award for our efforts to promote carpooling to work at our Seattle-based
headquarters in January 2001.


**Energy and Water Consumption**
Our North American company-operated retail stores represent the majority of our
energy and water use, so that’s where we are directing most of our conservation
efforts. To measure the efficiency of our energy and water usage, we gathered
information from a sample of stores where data was available. After gathering the
data, we used several performance metrics that, collectively, gave us reliable
feedback and control for other factors. In the graph below, our consumption is
reported using just one of these metrics—average retail square footage.










It is difficult to draw conclusions from data that was just collected over two years.We
plan to track our consumption levels annually and in fiscal 2002, we will investigate
opportunities to improve the efficiency of our energy and water usage by reviewing
our store design specifications.We expect that systemic changes to our mechanical
and equipment design specifications will improve energy and water efficiency.


**Store Design and Operations**


It is not only how Starbucks operates our stores that determines our environmental
impact, but also how we build them—and the materials we use in the interior
construction. In 2000, we joined the U.S. Green Building Council (USGBC).
Currently, we are evaluating specifications for materials used to build our store
interiors against the USGBC’s Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design
(LEED) standards. In the meantime, our footprint analysis targeted two wastereduction tactics: store recycling and use of commuter mugs in place of paper cups.





_In fiscal 2001,Starbucks customers used_
_commuter mugs nearly 12 million times,_
_conserving enough paper cups that,when_
_lined up,would stretch nearly 1,000_
_miles,from Chicago to Dallas.By not_
_using paper cups,it also eliminated_
_508,000 pounds of landfill waste._

















Our store recycling metric measures the percentage of stores with established
recycling programs. Starbucks goal is to offer recycling in all of our companyoperated stores.Achieving this goal is determined by the availability of commercial
recycling services in each community, and the support of our property managers. In
fiscal 2002, we will collaborate with other like-minded retailers to encourage our
mutual property managers’ participation in recycling programs. For commuter mug
usage, we measured the percentage of beverages served in reusable commuter mugs
against fiscal 2000. Although Starbucks provides a $0.10 commuter mug incentive
discount to customers, our data indicated a decline in usage. In fiscal 2002, we will
take measures to raise awareness of this waste reduction opportunity to our partners
and customers.


**Embracing Change**
The key to fulfilling our environmental mission rests on our ability to make changes
within our operations.With the commitment of Starbucks senior leadership team to
make meaningful progress, and the adoption of an action plan that is communicated
throughout our organization, Starbucks is moving in a direction that will minimize
our environmental footprint.


Another important step Starbucks has taken is to cultivate an active “Green Team,”
which consists of retail store managers across North America.The Team was created
in 1994 and has been instrumental in identifying environmental opportunities,
creating solutions, and communicating those solutions to our retail partners. The
Green Team’s efforts have been critical to our efforts to conserve energy, reduce
waste and involve our partners.


Some of our initiatives for fiscal 2001 included the following:


**Energy Conservation**
Starbucks established a Utility Task Force in fiscal 1999 to identify conservation
measures, such as modified lighting and adjusted thermostats. In fiscal 2001, the
Utility Task Force piloted several measures aimed at conserving energy while
providing cost savings.We rolled out the Utility Task Force’s recommendations in our
North American company-operated stores at the end of fiscal 2001.


**Waste Reduction**

Starbucks Green Team first promoted the idea of offering coffee grounds as
compost in spring 1998, and now it is an annual event. This initiative has helped
reduce waste in our stores and provided many customers with nitrogen-rich
material for their gardens.


**Earth Day**
To celebrate Earth Day 2001, last April more than 600 Starbucks partners
contributed nearly 3,000 volunteer hours helping to improve the environment. For
Earth Day 2002, Starbucks will support the Earth Day Network
(www.earthday.net), an on-line resource for environmental information and
opportunities to get involved on a local level around the world. We will raise
awareness about this valuable resource to our partners and customers who seek to
get involved in their communities.


**WORKING WITH OUR SUPPLIERS**


We seek suppliers who share our values, as stated in our mission statement and
guiding principles, and who operate their businesses accordingly.


**Environmental Guidelines**

Key suppliers receive the Starbucks Supplier Handbook, which encourages them to
adhere to Starbucks environmental mission statement and environmental purchasing
policy. Moreover, we ask our suppliers to:


- Provide products “fit for use” and avoid over-engineered products.

- Provide the most energy-efficient products within their category.

- Eliminate excessive packaging.

- Incorporate paperless administration systems whenever possible.

- Adopt techniques that maximize the efficiency of wood use in product design or
building construction.

Starbucks requests that suppliers submit information pertaining to our expectations
and requirements as stated in our handbook. Starbucks staff or a designated third
party may also conduct a plant audit of a supplier’s facilities.



_CSR Fiscal 2001 Report_ **11**


_**Starbucks Environmental**_
_**Purchasing Policy**_


_• Meet all relevant regulatory_
_standards._


_• Seek to purchase environmentally_
_friendly products in use and_
_manufacture._


_• Seek to purchase products that are_
_easily recyclable in most communities._


_• Seek to purchase products that contain_
_the highest percentage of post-_
_consumer recycled materials.Paper_
_should have a minimum of 20% post-_
_consumer recycled content._


_• Seek to maximize our use of wood and_
_paper products derived from certified,_
_well-managed forests as determined by_
_standards endorsed by the Forest_
_Stewardship Council._


**Building a Diverse Network of Suppliers**
Starbucks embraces diversity as one of our core values. Since 1996, we have engaged
in supplier diversity efforts to actively build a broad, efficient supplier network of
businesses owned by minorities and women. During fiscal 2001, Starbucks served
on the Northwest Minority Business Council, which is the local chapter of the
National Minority Supplier Development Council.


For fiscal 2001, Starbucks estimates it spent $50 million with certified and noncertified businesses owned by minorities or women. This number represents a 32
percent increase over fiscal 2000 estimated spending. Suppliers can be certified
through the National Minority Supplier Development Council and the National
Women Business Owners Corporation. Certification ensures their status as diverse
suppliers and improves our tracking and reporting on the amount of business we are
doing with companies owned by minorities and women.







**Initiatives for Fiscal 2002**

For the next fiscal year, Starbucks is pursuing three initiatives regarding suppliers.
These are:


- Updating our “non-coffee” sourcing guidelines, including introducing a supplier
Code of Conduct.

- Assigning accountability for supplier diversity to one of Starbucks procurement
leaders.

- Encouraging all of our suppliers that are owned by minorities and women to
become certified.


**LISTENING TO OUR STAKEHOLDERS**


During fiscal 2001, we heard concerns from our customers and shareholders about
two particular issues: the presence of genetically modified material in our products,
and the ubiquity of our stores.


**Genetically Modified Material**
In March 2001,activists and some customers raised questions regarding the presence
of genetically modified (GM) material in some of the products we sell, including
synthetic hormones in the milk we purchase from local dairies. As a company
committed to providing the highest quality coffees, teas and foods, we take these
issues seriously.


Although there is a great deal of controversy regarding genetic modification of food,
our company does not possess the scientific expertise required to establish credible
opinions regarding GM materials in products.


Starbucks has confirmed that our core products, coffee and tea, are not genetically
modified, and we have no intention to buy or sell genetically engineered coffees or
teas. Regarding the current research on genetic modification of coffee to increase
crop yields, we see no reason to pursue this technology and do not plan to support
its development. In addition, the soy milk we purchase for our stores is certified as
GM material-free.And we have reviewed our other products and found the majority
are GM material-free as well.


Starbucks maintains the position that if our customers are concerned about
genetically modified material, we will act responsibly to address our customers’
needs by developing feasible alternatives. In Seattle and Portland,Oregon, at the end
of fiscal 2001, Starbucks launched a test of baked goods made with organic
ingredients.The results of this test will be evaluated.


The issue involving milk is the use of the synthetic hormone, rBST (recombinant
bovine somatotropin), to increase milk production in cows. Because milk is not
labeled to indicate the presence of rBST, Starbucks believes the best way to address
customer concerns is to provide an alternative. In July 2001, Starbucks began
offering certified organic milk, which is rBST-free, upon request in our companyowned U.S. stores.


**Starbucks Growth**

Starbucks opened 525 of our 2,971 company-operated stores in North America in
fiscal 2001. Many of these locations were opened in areas previously not served by
Starbucks.We opened other locations in communities where Starbucks already has a
strong presence. And it may seem curious, but sometimes we opened new stores
within close proximity to other Starbucks locations.


Our decisions about where to site our stores depend on reaching our potential
customers and providing better service to our existing customers. Like every
successful retailer, we take a straightforward approach to store siting, basing our
decisions on demographics and traffic measures.When we open a new store near an
established Starbucks, it is generally intended to relieve long customer lines and
improve service.


It takes more than just a prime location to be successful.Attracting customers to our
stores, we believe, happens by providing high-quality coffee as well as creating
inviting, comfortable places that are conveniently located. When we enter new
neighborhoods or communities, we do so with care and consideration, striving to
create places that add to the spirit of each community.



_CSR Fiscal 2001 Report_ **13**


_The U.S.does not require labeling of the_
_presence of genetically modified_
_ingredients where the changes brought_
_about by biotechnology result in a_
_product that is substantially equivalent_
_to the non-bioengineered product.In the_
_U.S.,the use of genetically modified_
_seeds is significant.It is estimated that_
_26 percent of the corn and 68 percent of_
_the soybeans presently grown in this_
_country are from genetically engineered_
_seeds.(Source:National Agricultural_
_Statistics Service of the USDA)_


_rBST is used in only about one-third of_
_U.S.dairy herds,but because milk from_
_many herds is combined in the process_
_of storage and distribution,less than_
_five percent of all milk can be verified as_
_coming from cows not treated with rBST._
_Milk from herds not treated with rBST_
_must be segregated throughout the_
_collection and processing system to be_
_guaranteed rBST-free.Moreover,an_
_analytical test to screen for the presence_
_of rBST does not exist,making_
_verification of rBST-free dairy products_
_almost impossible._


_The outside view of Starbucks Belltown_
_store in downtown Seattle is an example_
_of creating a Starbucks store while_
_maintaining the architectural elements_
_reflected in this neighborhood._


_In 1998,basketball great Earvin “Magic”_
_Johnson’s company,Johnson Development_
_Corporation,and Starbucks formed a_
_joint venture partnership called Urban_
_Coffee Opportunities,LLC (UCO) to_
_place Starbucks Coffee locations in_
_underserved urban communities_
_throughout the U.S.The joint venture_
_has not only helped Starbucks reach more_
_customers,it has provided employment to_
_local residents,as well as helped to_
_strengthen the economies of the_
_communities in which the UCO stores_
_operate.By the end of fiscal 2001,28_
_UCO stores were operating in the U.S._



After selecting a new site and negotiating the lease for the best possible terms, our
architects study the local neighborhood and try to reflect its character into the
store’s design. Before the store opens, our new manager relies on Starbucks
Community Tool Kit as a guide in reaching out to community leaders to learn
about important neighborhood issues and providing support for local charitable
causes. These measures have helped make Starbucks a welcome neighbor
throughout North America.


For some communities, like Columbia-Tusculum’s business district in Cincinnati,
Ohio, the opening of a new Starbucks store is seen as a positive sign when an area is
undergoing revitalization. Starbucks presence is perceived as a signal that other
businesses will follow our lead.As John Van Volkenburgh, a management consultant
and former director of the Columbia-Tusculum Economic Development Corp.
stated in the _Cincinnati Post_ on March 30, 2000,“A new Starbucks is evidence the area
is ripe for redevelopment. It’s yet another step in the right direction.”


In addition, while many national retailers avoid underserved urban neighborhoods
(thus denying local residents potential jobs and services), Starbucks formed a joint
venture with Johnson Development Corporation, a company formed by Earvin
“Magic” Johnson, to specifically serve these areas.


_CSR Fiscal 2001 Report_ **15**




|Col1|Col2|
|---|---|
|||



We believe the growth of Starbucks has created employment and business
opportunities within the specialty coffee industry.According to the Specialty Coffee
Association of America, 275 coffee cafes and bean retailers existed in 1980, of which
a few belonged to Starbucks. Twenty years later, the specialty coffee industry has
created tens of thousands of jobs in nearly 14,000 coffee cafes and bean retailers, of
which 16 percent belong to Starbucks.


# _Investing in Our_ _Communities_

**PART OF THE NEIGHBORHOOD**


At the end of fiscal 2001, Starbucks was serving nearly 16 million customers weekly
in 23 countries. Many people use our coffeehouses to get together with friends or
colleagues, or host meetings with local organizations and book clubs, or just to sit
and relax.We are proud and honored to welcome them as our guests. Providing a
comfortable, relaxed environment that serves as a neighborhood gathering place is
just one way Starbucks enriches the quality of life in our communities.


At all levels within our organization, Starbucks partners strive to be good neighbors
and active contributors in the communities where we live and work. It’s part of the
Starbucks culture.


We recognize the relationship between the success of our company and the strength
and vitality of the communities where we operate. Investing in our communities is
not only the right thing to do; it also creates better places for all of us.


We make community investments through:


- Corporate cash contributions

- In-kind donations

- The Starbucks Foundation


STARBUCKS COFFEE COMPANY’S TOTAL

CHARITABLE CONTRIBUTIONS



_CSR Fiscal 2001 Report_ **17**


_To Starbucks Store Manager Kelli Caires,_
_creating a community-gathering place_
_in Orange,California means making_
_everyone feel welcome.When Kelli_
_noticed her store’s clientele included_
_a small group of hearing-impaired_
_customers,she enlisted help from two_
_partners familiar with American Sign_
_Language (ASL).Together,they devised_
_a customer service system to meet their_
_customers’needs.As word spread of this_
_service,the 25 to 30 hearing-impaired_
_regular customers grew to hundreds._
_Later,Kelli set up an eight-week ASL_
_course for approximately 30 interested_
_customers and Starbucks partners._


_Opposite page (top)—Customers come_
_to Starbucks to enjoy their favorite coffee_
_beverages and to take a moment to visit_
_with others or just relax._


_(bottom)—Literature for All of Us_
_participants read samplings of their_
_original poetry at a Starbucks store in_
_Evanston,Illinois.The Starbucks_
_Foundation provided funding to_
_Literature for All of Us,a nonprofit_
_organization promoting literature as a_
_tool for expression to girls and women in_
_underserved communities._



_**Starbucks Coffee Company’s**_
_**Contribution to**_

_**The Starbucks Foundation**_


_**In-kind**_

_**Donations**_





_**Corporate Cash**_

_**Contributions**_


**COMMUNITY INVESTMENTS**


In fiscal 2001, Starbucks corporate cash contributions to nonprofit organizations
totaled $3.4 million, plus an additional $1.3 million that Starbucks contributed to
The Starbucks Foundation. Our corporate contributions are focused on a number of
company-wide initiatives, as well as supporting our partners’ involvement in their
communities, enriching community life in regions across North America, and
creating special community stores.All of the contributions made by Starbucks reflect
our commitment to our partners, communities and business practices.


**Company-wide Initiatives**
Starbucks has developed partnerships with organizations that support the people and
places that grow our coffee and tea, such as Conservation International and CARE.
We have launched initiatives to collect books and toys for children, and to help the
victims of September 11th. We have also created programs to encourage our
partners to be involved in their communities.A few examples of Starbucks companywide initiatives include:


_Conservation International (CI)_
CI shares our commitment to preserve environmentally sensitive areas and provide
economic opportunities for small family farmers in coffee-origin countries. In fiscal
2001, Starbucks invested $327,500 in CI as part of a three-year investment to
provide a minimum of $600,000.


_CARE_

Our 10-year alliance with CARE enables us to support coffee- and tea-origin
countries where our help is used to improve the quality of life for local residents. In
fiscal 2001, Starbucks invested $120,000 in CARE for ongoing programs.


_Starbucks Cares_

Starbucks Cares is a special fund that was created in response to the terrorist attacks
on September 11, 2001. Starbucks donated $1 million to Starbucks Cares in fiscal
2001. In the weeks following September 11, an additional $1.7 million was
contributed by our partners, customers and business partners, mostly through drop
boxes in Starbucks company-operated stores in North America. The funds raised
through Starbucks Cares were donated to The September 11th Fund, created by
The New York Community Trust and United Way of New York.


In addition to our cash contribution, Starbucks also contributed coffee and related
products to support the rescue and relief efforts in New York,Washington, D.C.,
and Pennsylvania.


_Calvert Community Investments_
Starbucks launched a new partnership with Calvert Community Investments in fiscal
2001 to manage a $150,000 initial investment that will support various community
projects in North America.


_All Books for Children_

To support our literacy efforts, Starbucks collects books through our annual
All Books for Children drive and distributes them to more than 180 literacy
organizations across North America. Since 1997, nearly 1.5 million books, including
_Howard Schultz,Starbucks chairman and_ 416,000 in fiscal 2001, have been collected in our stores from partners and
_chief global strategist,showed his support_ community members.
_for literacy by participating in an All_
_Books for Children event in Chicago._


_Starbucks Holiday Angels Toy Drive_
During fiscal 2001, Starbucks launched our first annual North American holiday
giving program in which customers and partners generously donated approximately
87,000 toys for needy children.


**Partner Community Involvement**
We believe one of the most important ways we can have a positive impact on our
communities is to foster the value of community involvement in our partners.That
is why we encourage Starbucks partners to volunteer their time and make charitable
gifts to organizations in their own communities.


_Make Your Mark_

Make Your Mark is our way of educating and inspiring our partners to volunteer their
time.The Make Your Mark program launched in fiscal 2000. It rewards the efforts of
partners by making cash contributions to the nonprofit organizations where they
volunteer. In fiscal 2001, partners volunteered 12,700 hours for local organizations
through Make Your Mark. To match their volunteer hours, Starbucks contributed
more than $70,000 to these organizations.


_Choose to Give!_

Starbucks encourages charitable giving through our gift matching program, Choose
to Give!—which matches partners’ charitable gifts up to $1,000 annually. In fiscal
2001, Starbucks partners contributed more than $400,000 to organizations of their
choice, and Choose to Give! provided $175,000 through the corporate match.


_Executive Involvement_

Starbucks believes our senior executives can set great examples for our partners by
lending their expertise and experience to community organizations.When they serve
as board members of nonprofit organizations,Starbucks makes financial contributions
to the organizations in support of their efforts. In fiscal 2001, one-third of Starbucks
executives served as board members of various nonprofit organizations.


**Regional Donations**
Starbucks encourages our stores to engage with their local communities in
meaningful ways. Store managers have the flexibility to support neighborhood
nonprofit organizations through cash contributions and volunteering. Our regional
offices also seek ways to support community organizations through sponsorships and
product donations for special events.


In fiscal 2001, Starbucks launched several focused initiatives in local communities
where we have a strong retail presence and a large workforce. Examples include:


_Neighborhood Park Grants_
In fiscal 2001, Starbucks Neighborhood Park Grants program made 10 grants,
totaling $100,000, to grassroots volunteer organizations working to create safe and
welcoming gathering places for members of the Seattle community.


_San Francisco Bay Area Grants for Giving_
In spring 2001, Starbucks established the San Francisco Bay Area Grants for Giving
program, which enlisted community members to help Starbucks direct $420,000 to
the local community for youth, literacy,AIDS and homeless initiatives.



_CSR Fiscal 2001 Report_ **19**


_The launch of Starbucks fiscal 2002_
_Holiday Angels Toy Drive,benefiting the_
_Starlight Children’s Foundation,got off_
_to a great start in Washington,D.C._
_when it was featured on the popular_
_radio show,_ DC101’s Elliot in the
Morning. _Local D.C.Starbucks stores_
_donated a portion of the proceeds from_
_seasonal sales of Gingerbread Lattes_
_each Wednesday during the holiday_
_season.From left,Laurie Crosley and_
_“Star”of the Starlight Children’s_
_Foundation;Flounder from_ DC101’s
Elliot in the Morning; _Starbucks_
_partner Catherine Gherardi._


_Starbucks partner Kelly Hewitt joined_
_her fellow co-workers to help beautify an_
_area of Seattle during United Way’s_
_annual Day of Caring._


**Special Community Stores**
Starbucks has several stores that are aligned with specific causes or charitable
partners, and plans are underway to initiate more community stores in fiscal 2003.
Examples of our community stores include:


_Georgetown Store_
A memorial fund was established in Washington, D.C. in 1997 in honor of three
Starbucks partners who were killed in a robbery at the Starbucks Georgetown store.
The annual gift to the Starbucks Memorial Fund is based on the net profits from the
Georgetown store, or a minimum of $75,000. The fund is managed by
The Community Foundation for the National Capital Region, and all contributions
made from this fund are designated for violence prevention and victim assistance
programs in the Washington, D.C. area.


_Seattle Rainier Avenue Store_

Zion Preparatory Academy is a private elementary and secondary school primarily
serving the African-American community in Seattle. Since 1995, Starbucks has
contributed $50,000 annually to help the school meet the needs of its students.This
contribution is funded primarily through profits of the Rainier Avenue Starbucks,
located in a multiracial neighborhood not far from the school. Our present
commitment extends through 2003.


**In-Kind Donations**
The estimated value of our in-kind product donations was $2.9 million for fiscal
2001. Our in-kind donations include the support we provide to many nonprofit
community organizations with product donations for their fundraising auctions,
luncheons, dinners and special events.


We also encourage our stores to donate unsold baked goods on a daily basis and
perishable whole bean coffee on a weekly basis to local charities. We donate
overstocks of perishable and non-perishable goods to local and national organizations
that, in turn, provide these products to community groups.


**THE STARBUCKS FOUNDATION**


Starbucks chairman and chief global strategist Howard Schultz has made literacy
a top philanthropic priority. His commitment to provide educational
opportunities to traditionally underserved communities inspired the creation of
The Starbucks Foundation in 1997.The goal of the Foundation is to support the
power of literacy to change lives, foster hope and involve parents in creating a
better future for their children.


The Starbucks Foundation is a separate entity from Starbucks Coffee Company.
Funding for the Foundation has come mostly from Starbucks Coffee Company, and
also from individual donations and Howard Schultz’s royalties from his book, _Pour_
_Your Heart Into It: How Starbucks Built a Company One Cup at a Time._ In fiscal 2001,
Starbucks Coffee Company donated $1.3 million to the Foundation.


**Making Grants**
The Foundation provides funding to nonprofit literacy organizations located in
communities across North America where Starbucks has stores. Since 1997, the
Foundation made 485 grants totaling $4.3 million; more than one-third of this
amount ($1.6 million) was donated in fiscal 2001.


The Foundation makes “Opportunity Grants” of up to $10,000 to organizations that:


- Serve low-income, at-risk children and youth.

- Involve the parents of children receiving services in the process.

- Utilize significant volunteer resources.

- Demonstrate an established relationship with a Starbucks store or our partners.


**Jumpstart**
In April 2001,The Starbucks Foundation announced a partnership with Jumpstart,
a nonprofit organization that pairs AmeriCorps college student tutors with
HeadStart preschoolers who need extra help.Jumpstart’s program has demonstrated
that early intervention with at-risk children is very effective at preparing future
kindergartners for reading and learning.


The Foundation contributed $250,000 in fiscal 2001 to Jumpstart, part of a
$1 million, four-year pledge to help Jumpstart expand to serve more children in
more U.S. communities.


**Involving Starbucks Partners**
When Starbucks partners volunteer their time with literacy organizations,
The Starbucks Foundation will often provide funding to those organizations.
That’s why the Foundation works closely with Starbucks Coffee Company to
encourage partners to apply for Opportunity Grants on behalf of literacy
organizations where they volunteer. All Opportunity Grants are made to
organizations with partner involvement.



_CSR Fiscal 2001 Report_ **21**


_BookPALS is a national volunteer_
_literacy program of the Screen Actors_
_Guild Foundation.BookPALS promotes_
_the love of reading and learning by_
_engaging professional actors and other_
_volunteers to read to young students in_
_high-risk,disadvantaged schools.Last_
_year,Starbucks partners in Phoenix_
_volunteered as BookPALS readers,adding_
_to the $34,600 support BookPALS_
_received from The Starbucks Foundation._


_AMERICA SCORES was founded in_
_1994 in Washington,D.C.by Julie_
_Kennedy,a public school teacher who_
_also worked as a Starbucks barista.Julie_
_saw her students needed a safe,structured_
_after-school environment,which led her_
_to teach them soccer and creative_
_writing.In total,AMERICA SCORES_
_programs in D.C.,Boston,New York,_
_Denver and Seattle received $136,000_
_from The Starbucks Foundation,as well_
_as volunteer support from Starbucks_
_partners in those communities._


_The Seattle Public Library Foundation_
_received $125,000 from The Starbucks_
_Foundation in fiscal 2001 as part of_
_our four-year $500,000 commitment_
_to fund the Literacy Outreach Program._
_Starbucks chairman and chief global_
_strategist Howard Schultz is also_
_assisting in the Library’s fundraising_
_efforts by serving as the co-chair of the_
_Community Campaign for Neighborhood_
_Libraries.Seattle Public Library is_
_working to improve or replace 22_
_neighborhood libraries,build five_
_new libraries in neighborhoods that_
_currently don’t have one,and build_
_a new Central Library._


# _Investing in_ _Our Partners_

**CREATING A STRONG WORKPLACE ENVIRONMENT**


The story behind Starbucks is more than just phenomenal growth. It’s also a
testament to what can happen when a company is led by strong values. We place our
greatest emphasis on creating a workplace environment that engages, inspires and
rewards our partners. The commitment to do this begins with our leaders at
Starbucks and extends throughout our organization.


Being committed to creating a strong workplace environment is the first step.
However, we know that to be competitive we must continually strive to improve our
workplace environment and how we reward our partners. In fiscal 2001, Starbucks
developed new strategies to enable us to maintain a competitive edge in the
marketplace.These strategies are focused on:


- Strengthening our position as an “Employer of Choice” by actively researching,
planning and developing programs, projects and initiatives that help attract and
retain top talent.

- Re-inventing our approach to human resources so we can better support
Starbucks growth and our business objectives by supporting our partners;
developing stronger internal communications; upholding our culture and values;
and functioning in a cost-effective manner.

Through our Employer of Choice and re-invention process, we have evaluated and
analyzed many current and potential programs for our partners. We have already
made some changes, and continue to find ways that enable us to meet our partners’
needs. Our efforts to create a positive workplace environment that inspires and
rewards Starbucks partners include:


- Providing benefits to eligible part-time and full-time partners.

- Treating partners with respect.

- Expanding the diversity of our workforce.

- Supporting partners in times of need.



_CSR Fiscal 2001 Report_ **23**


_“Looking back now,I have a lot of respect_
_for my dad.He never finished high_
_school,but he was an honest man who_
_worked hard.He sometimes had to take_
_on two or three jobs just to put food on_
_the table.He cared a lot about his three_
_kids,and played ball with us on_
_weekends.He loved the Yankees._


_“But he was a beaten man.In a series of_
_blue-collar jobs – truck driver,factory_
_worker,cab driver – he never made as_
_much as $20,000 a year,never could_
_afford to own his own home._


_“I tried to make Starbucks the kind of_
_company I wish my dad had worked for._
_Without even a high school diploma,he_
_probably could never have been an_
_executive.But if he had landed a job in_
_one of our stores or roasting plants,he_
_wouldn’t have quit in frustration because_
_the company didn’t value him.He would_
_have had good health benefits,stock_
_options,and an atmosphere in which his_
_suggestions or complaints would receive a_
_prompt,respectful response.”_


_—Starbucks chairman and chief_
_global strategist Howard Schultz,_
Pour Your Heart Into It:

How Starbucks Built a Company
One Cup at a Time


_Opposite page (top)—Starbucks retail_
_partner Stacy Gallagher prepares her_
_customer’s beverage and tops it with a_
_drizzle of caramel._


_(bottom)—Fumi Watanabe,a designer_
_for Starbucks,approaches her creative_
_work with enthusiasm and passion._


_A customer transaction elicits a smile_
_from Starbucks retail partner_
_Tyneshia Broussard._


_One of the many events Starbucks_
_attended in fiscal 2001 was the NAACP_
_Diversity Job Fair,held on February 5,_
_2001 at the World Congress Center in_
_Atlanta,Georgia.More than 1,000 job_
_seekers were in attendance._



**Starbucks Benefits**

Starbucks provides health, dental and vision insurance and other benefits to all
eligible full-time and part-time (20 hours per week) partners. Some of our
benefits include:

- Future Roast 401(k) and RRSP, our savings plans.

- Health care coverage for alternative health services.

- Health care coverage for domestic partners.

- Income protection when a partner is unable to work due to illness or injury.

- Adoption assistance of up to $3,000 for partners who choose to adopt children.

- _Bean Stock,_ our company-wide stock option plan.

- S.I.P. (Stock Investment Plan), our discounted employee stock purchase plan.


**Treating Partners with Respect**
Starbucks emphasizes an inclusive workplace with a variety of opportunities for
partners to share ideas and concerns with senior management. Periodically,
Starbucks president and CEO Orin Smith and other Starbucks leaders conduct Open
Forums where partners can share ideas or ask questions. Our regional markets also
conduct their own local meetings between management and partners. In addition,
all partners who have concerns about how the company is living up to our mission
statement can voice their questions or suggestions to management in writing through
Starbucks “Mission Review” process. All submissions to Mission Review are
evaluated and receive follow-up responses.


Partners wishing to voice concerns about actions of their co-workers or the business
policies and practices of Starbucks can call our 24-hour Starbucks Helpline. Partners
who call the Helpline, anonymously if they wish, are interviewed by non-company
personnel, and a confidential report is then prepared and forwarded for investigation
and executive attention.The Starbucks Helpline is part of our general Compliance
Program, designed to implement and assure compliance with our Standards of
Business Conduct.


Partners are recognized for their achievements. Starbucks has more than 30 award
programs in place, such as the “Manager of the Year,” which recognizes outstanding
performance on the retail level, and the “Spirit of Starbucks,” which specifically
recognizes outstanding partners who exemplify Starbucks mission statement.


**Embracing Diversity**
At Starbucks, diversity is an essential component of the way we do business.
Attracting and retaining a work force that reflects the communities where we do
business is key to our success. Starbucks believes so strongly in embracing diversity
that it appears as one of our six guiding principles in our mission statement.


To find outstanding partners, Starbucks directs some of our retail recruitment
efforts at the regional level, where we can participate in local job fairs and work
directly with particular communities to ensure a diverse candidate pool.


Starbucks has been progressive in supporting our gay and lesbian partners. Our
diversity training pays special attention to sexual orientation issues, and our written
policy specifically bars discrimination based on sexual orientation.


**Caring for Partners in Times of Need**
Starbucks has a fund dedicated to helping our partners in time of need that is in
addition to disability coverage and personal leave allowances.The CUP Fund (Caring
Unites Partners) is a financial assistance program funded by partners primarily
through payroll deductions.All partners are eligible upon hire. For fiscal 2001, the
CUP Fund made 129 awards, for more than $78,000.


In fiscal 2001, Starbucks received some special commendations and
awards. Here are some highlights:


In the March/April 2001 issue of _**Business Ethics**_ _**,**_ Starbucks was named
as one of the 100 Best Corporate Citizens. The honor was based on
data gathered by Kinder, Lydenberg, Domini & Co. (KLD) from six
stakeholder groups: community, minority groups, employees, suppliers,
customers and environmental stakeholders.


Starbucks was named the most admired brand in the food services

category by _**FORTUNE**_ magazine in 2001, _**FORTUNE’**_ s own definitive
report card on corporate reputations. This distinction recognizes our
commitment to outstanding products and customer care, as well our
adherence to socially responsible business practices.


Starbucks was included in the 2002 Dow Jones Sustainability World
Index (DJSI World). This assessment of the 2,500 largest companies
in the Dow Jones Global Index focuses on economic, environmental
and social performance. Starbucks was one of 312 companies that
met the sustainability criteria to merit inclusion in the Index.


The U.S. Department of Justice recognized Starbucks with
the “Justice for Victims of Crimes Award.” Starbucks earned the

award for establishing the Starbucks Memorial Fund. This fund
supports violence prevention and victim assistance programs in
metropolitan Washington, D.C. The fund is a memorial to three
Starbucks partners who were killed in a robbery at the Georgetown
Starbucks location in 1997.


Starbucks was included on _**FORTUNE’**_ s list of the 100 Best Companies
to Work For, announced in January 2002. Two-thirds of the score is
based on how randomly selected employees respond to the Great Place
to Work Trust Index, a survey instrument measuring the quality of
workplace culture. The remainder of the score is based on _**FORTUNE’**_ s
evaluation of the company.


Starbucks earned inclusion in the 2001 Calvert Social Index, which
consists of 600 exemplary companies that meet Calvert’s strict social
responsibility criteria. Calvert is the leading provider of the largest
family of socially responsible mutual funds.


© 2002 Starbucks Coffee Company. All rights reserved. Printed in the USA.



_**FOR ADDITIONAL INFORMATION:**_

_**The Report is available on-line at**_
_**www.starbucks.com/aboutus/investor.asp.**_
_**To request a printed copy of the Report, call**_
_**1-800-STARBUC (1-800-782-7282), or fax**_
_**your request to 1-800-782-7286.**_


_**This Report is printed on 100% recycled fiber,**_
_**100% post-consumer material.**_


_**For additional information about Starbucks,**_
_**please visit www.starbucks.com.**_


