###### L I V I N G O U R VA L U E S

**Corporate Social Responsibility**


**Fiscal 2003 Annual Report**


**STARBUCKS MISSION STATEMENT AND GUIDING PRINCIPLES**


**To establish Starbucks as the premier purveyor of the finest coffee in the world while maintaining our uncompromising**
**principles as we grow.**


**The following six Guiding Principles will help us measure the appropriateness of our decisions:**


**• Provide a great work environment and treat each other with respect and dignity.**


**• Embrace diversity as an essential component in the way we do business.**


**• Apply the highest standards of excellence to the purchasing, roasting and fresh delivery of our coffee.**


**• Develop enthusiastically satisfied customers all of the time.**


**• Contribute positively to our communities and our environment.**


**• Recognize that profitability is essential to our future success.**


**What It Means to Live Our Values at Starbucks**


We are very proud to present you with Starbucks third annual Corporate Social Responsibility Report, this


year titled “Living Our Values.” Throughout our Report, we explain the measures we take to align our


decisions and actions with Starbucks Mission Statement and Guiding Principles.


The topics presented here relate to our definition of corporate social responsibility. They are subjects we also


believe to be important to our partners (employees), customers, shareholders, suppliers, communities, and


others. As information was gathered for each topic, we stepped back and asked ourselves if we are hitting the

mark or falling short of our own expectations. In the spirit of transparency, we share our findings with you,


the reader.


Maintaining the trust of our stakeholders will never be taken for granted at Starbucks. We know it’s


something to be earned every day, and happens only if we uphold our core values. We are committed to doing


this – it’s our promise to you.



**Howard Schultz**


**chairman and**


**chief global strategist**



**Orin C. Smith**


**president and**

**chief executive officer**


## **living our values**

**Table of Contents**



_**2**_


_**14**_


_**22**_


_**38**_


_**48**_


_**70**_


_**78**_



Partners **| Our Workplace Culture 4 | Being a Starbucks Partner 7 | Creating a Healthy and**
**Safe Work Environment 12 | Recognition 13 | Going Forward 13**


Diversity **| Diversity in Our Workplace 16 | Supplier Diversity 18 | Engaging with Diverse**

**Communities 20 | Recognition 21 | Going Forward 21**


Coffee **| A Snapshot of the Coffee Industry 24 | Sustaining Coffee Communities 26 |**


**Recognition 36 | Going Forward 37**


Customers **| Meeting Our Customers’ Expectations 40 | Bringing Starbucks to Our**
**Customers 41 | Improving Our Communities with Our Customers 43 | Listening to Our**


**Customers and Stakeholders 44 | Going Forward 47**


Community and Environment **| Engaging Our Partners 50 | The Starbucks Foundation**

**Supports Literacy 55 | Contributing to Local Communities 57 | Coffee- and Tea-Growing**
**Communities 60 | Minimizing Our Environmental Impact 62 | Recognition 68 |**

**Going Forward 69**


Profitability **| Starbucks History and Company Profile 72 | Corporate Governance 74 |**

**Expectations of Our Suppliers 75 | Recognition 76 | Going Forward 77**


Independent Verification Letter **| About This Report 79 | Feedback and Further**

**Information 80**



_**Cover photo: Care is taken to ensure Starbucks**_ [®] _**coffees are roasted to perfection.**_


**running out, Blythe treasured every moment with her mom, serving as**

**her primary caretaker in every possible way. At the Starbucks store**

**she supervises in Tucson, Arizona, Blythe cut back her hours, which**
**drastically reduced her salary and benefits. But the support of her**
**co-workers kept her strong. They urged her to apply for a financial**
**assistance grant through Starbucks CUP (Caring Unites Partners)**

**Fund. It’s a special program that is funded by partners and designed**
**to help fellow partners, like Blythe, during difficult times.**



**the time when I was caring for my mom,” Blythe explained. “At**

**Starbucks, there’s a genuine spirit of people helping people. We’re**

**more than co-workers here. We’re partners.”**


**The experience of losing a parent was traumatic for both Blythe and**

**another Starbucks partner – her brother Josh. He also received a**

**CUP Fund grant.**


_**Eduardo Bello (left), shift supervisor,**_

_**and Melanie Bandulin, barista, add**_

_**a little laughter to their day at**_

_**Starbucks.**_



**O U R W O R K P L A C E C U L T U R E**



**C S R 2 0 0 3** **P A R T N E R S** **4**


_**Bob Shaftoe (left) receives the District**_
_**Manager of the Year Award from Jim Alling,**_
_**executive vice president of Starbucks U.S.,**_
_**at Starbucks 2003 Leadership Conference.**_


_**“If people relate to the**_

_**company they work for, if**_

_**they share an emotional**_

_**tie to it and buy in to its**_

_**dreams, they will pour their**_

_**heart into making it better.”**_


**— Howard Schultz, Starbucks**


**chairman and chief global strategist**



**P A R T N E R S** **C S R 2 0 0 3**
**5**


_**Starbucks partner Leanne Paluck**_

_**went to Alaska to work alongside**_
_**research scientists and study sea otters**_
_**on a company-sponsored Earthwatch**_
_**Expedition.**_





**C S R 2 0 0 3** **P A R T N E R S** **6**


**B E I N G A S T A R B U C K S P A R T N E R**



_**Starbucks partner Cherie Vinson**_

_**works as a shift supervisor. She enjoys**_
_**her team of co-workers, acknowledging**_

_**that “we care about each other.”**_



**P A R T N E R S** **C S R 2 0 0 3**
**7**


_**When Eric Yu was attending college**_

_**five years ago, he joined Starbucks as**_
_**a part-time barista and qualified for**_

_**healthcare coverage and other benefits.**_
_**“As a college student, the healthcare**_

_**benefits were very important to me.**_
_**Now that I’m a full-time assistant**_
_**manager, the healthcare coverage and**_
_**other benefits are**_ **still** _**important**_

_**to me.”**_





**C S R 2 0 0 3** **P A R T N E R S** **8**


_**One of our baristas, Angie Martin**_
_**(left), gets trained by Amanda Cebull,**_
_**store manager, on how to deliver the**_
_**perfect**_ **Starbucks Experience.**



**P A R T N E R S** **C S R 2 0 0 3**
**9**


_**Our non-retail partners have the**_
_**opportunity to enhance their skills**_
_**through a variety of training programs.**_





**C S R 2 0 0 3** **P A R T N E R S** **10**


_**Cheree Best (left) and Steph Morrison**_

_**work at Seattle’s Best Coffee, a wholly**_
_**owned subsidiary of Seattle Coffee**_
_**Company. After Starbucks acquired**_
_**Seattle Coffee Company, its employees**_

_**became our partners.**_



**11** **P A R T N E R S** **C S R 2 0 0 3**


**W O R K E N V I R O N M E N T**


**C S R 2 0 0 3** **P A R T N E R S** **12**


**R E C O G N I T I O N**


**G O I N G F O R W A R D**

##### S tarbucks remains committed to providing a positive and supportive work environment that maintains our position as one of America’s best places to work. With the help of

our Partner View Survey process, we will continuously monitor the overall health of our
organization and take the actions required to address areas of opportunities. In 2004, we
will focus our efforts to achieve the following:


- Expand our training and development offerings to improve the skills and management

capabilities of our partners as well as to deepen their overall coffee knowledge.


- Develop processes and systems that allow our partners to be more actively involved in

their own personal development and career movement. This includes offering tuition
reimbursement for the first time.


- Redefine the way we work with our partners to get them more actively involved in our

efforts to maintain comprehensive healthcare benefits while controlling costs.


- Introduce new tools and vehicles for increasing the level of two-way communications

with our partners both within and across all departments.


- Continue to maintain both formal and informal recognition processes as a critical

element of how we express our appreciation for the efforts of our partners.


- Measure the progress of our efforts and identify new opportunities through the

administration of another Partner View Survey in October 2004.


**P A R T N E R S** **C S R 2 0 0 3**
**13**


#### **K irandeep Shergill starts her day doing something she loves. She goes to work. Just putting on her green Starbucks apron brings**

**a smile to her face. Most of all, Kirandeep senses how much she’s**

**appreciated by her fellow partners.**


**“Kirandeep has been a great addition to our team and has added**

**tremendous value,” remarked Sharon Barr, the store’s manager. “In**

**fact, Kirandeep has helped my entire staff bond as a team.”**


**With the support of her family and Northwest Center, Kirandeep**

**has achieved many of her goals. She recently completed high**

**school through a transitional outreach program and then entered**



**Northwest Center’s Individual Employment Program. Northwest**

**Center provides job training to people with developmental disabilities**

**and helps place their clients in suitable positions where they have an**

**opportunity to contribute.**


**Scheduled to work during the store’s busiest hours, Kirandeep focuses**

**on keeping the customer areas neat and tidy, and the condiment bar**
**fully stocked. Her efforts are definitely noticed, especially by her**
**fellow partners. They know when Kirandeep is there, the store shines**

**a little brighter.**


_**May Snowden joined Starbucks in**_
_**2003 as our vice president of global**_

_**diversity.**_



**D I V E R S I T Y I N O U R W O R K P L A C E**



**C S R 2 0 0 3** **D I V E R S I T Y** **1­**


_**Starbucks partners Terri Johnson (left),**_
_**Gay Niven (center) and Tamara**_
_**Robertson worked together to ensure**_
_**diversity content is woven throughout**_
_**our partner training modules.**_



**D I V E R S I T Y** **C S R 2 0 0 3**
**17**


**C S R 2 0 0 3** **D I V E R S I T Y** **18**


_**One of Starbucks suppliers is Bartlett**_
_**Dairy, a Brooklyn, New York–based**_

_**business owned and operated by a Hispanic**_
_**family – the Malaves. (From left) Kenny,**_
_**Tommy, Jimmy, Donald and Michael**_

_**Malave. Bartlett Dairy is a certified**_
_**diverse supplier.**_



**D I V E R S I T Y** **C S R 2 0 0 3**
**19**


_**Customers relax while sipping their**_

_**favorite beverages at this UCO**_

_**location.**_


_**“When I go to our UCO**_

_**stores and see our customers**_

_**and partners, I see how**_

_**we have changed the**_

_**community, provided hope**_

_**and provided opportunities.**_

_**I’m very proud of what**_

_**we’ve been able to do.”**_


**— Howard Schultz, Starbucks**


**chairman and chief global strategist**



**E NGAGI NG W I T H DI V E R SE COM M U N I T I E S**



**C S R 2 0 0 3** **D I V E R S I T Y** **20**


**R E C O G N I T I O N**


**G O I N G F O R W A R D**

##### W vice president of global diversity. We also improved diversity within the executive e have made progress in our diversity efforts during 2003, including the hiring of a

levels of our company and on our board of directors. Starbucks spent more with diverse
suppliers compared to last year. And UCO opened 17 stores in diverse communities.


Despite these advances, we still have opportunities for improvement. Here are some of
our plans for 2004.


- Implement a global strategic diversity plan that will effectively increase diversity at all

levels within the company, including an emphasis on succession planning.


- Increase the number of UCO stores in diverse neighborhoods.


- Create a stronger business and communications strategy for Supplier Diversity to

increase the amount of business Starbucks does with diverse suppliers.


- Increase the amount we spend with diverse suppliers to $95 million by identifying new

certified diverse suppliers for future business with Starbucks, as well as encourage more
of our existing diverse suppliers to become certified.


- Create a new position at Starbucks to oversee the Supplier Diversity Program.


- Develop strategic alliances with national organizations that serve diverse constituents,

such as the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People (NAACP) and

the National Council of La Raza.


**21** **D I V E R S I T Y** **C S R 2 0 0 3**


#### **B ensa Ware, a small coffee-farming village in southern Ethiopia, is home to about 8,000 villagers. This is also the place where**

**some of the world’s finest coffee is grown, including Starbucks** **[®]**
**Ethiopia Sidamo. Until recently the only water source available was**

**a river that was subject to periodic pollution. Some time ago, the**

**government started building a well for the community, but abandoned**

**the project due to a lack of funds. Starbucks UK heard about this**



**situation and decided to take action. They mounted a campaign in**

**our UK stores to raise customer awareness and committed to pay for**

**completion of the well, the construction of a reservoir and a series of**

**water points throughout Bensa Ware. Today, the residents of Bensa**

**Ware have a healthy and reliable source of fresh water for drinking,**

**cooking and washing.**


**A S N A P S H O T O F T H E C O F F E E**


**I N D U S T R Y**



**C S R 2 0 0 3** **C O F F E E** **2­**



- International Coffee Organization


** Specialty Coffee Association of America



**C O F F E E** **C S R 2 0 0 3**
**25**


_**When our coffee buyers visited the**_
_**Thai hill tribe that grows coffee**_

_**used in Starbucks Muan Jai Blend,**_ [™]
_**they shared a coffee break with Ler**_
_**Kankheaw, a member of the tribe.**_


Connecting with Farmers in


Thailand


**Five years after we opened stores in**


**Thailand, Starbucks introduced Thai**


**customers to Muan Jai Blend.** **[™]** **Muan**


**Jai means “wholehearted happiness”**


**in the Kum-Muang Thai language. For**


**this blend we searched the northern**


**mountainous districts of Chiang Mai**


**and Mae Hong Sorn, where local**


**hill tribe farmers grow high-quality**


_arabica_ **coffee under the canopy of**


**shade trees. The farmers are members**


**of a Fair Trade cooperative and**

**receive a Fair Trade Certified** **[™]** **price.**


**Currently, Muan Jai Blend** **[™]** **coffee is**


**being sold exclusively in Thailand. Our**


**hope is to expand the distribution of**


**this wonderful coffee so Starbucks**


**customers around the world can enjoy**


**it, too.**



**S U S TA I N I N G C O F F E E C O M M U N I T I E S**



**C S R 2 0 0 3** **C O F F E E** **26**


_**During the harvest season last**_
_**February, this coffee farmer from a**_
_**town near Chiapas, Mexico, tracked**_
_**the amount of shade-grown coffee**_
_**being delivered to the wet mill for**_

_**processing.**_


_**In 2003, Starbucks paid an**_


_**average price of $1.20 per**_

_**pound for our coffee.**_



**C O F F E E** **C S R 2 0 0 3**
**27**


_**While in Mexico, Starbucks partner**_
_**Peter Torrebiarte (right) met with**_
_**Alfredo Gomez Velazco, a coffee**_

_**farmer interested in learning more**_
_**about Starbucks Coffee Sourcing**_
_**Guidelines. Alfredo is a participating**_

_**farmer in CI’s Conservation Coffee**_ [™]
_**project in Chiapas, Mexico.**_



**S T A R B U C K S C O F F E E S O U R C I N G G U I D E L I N E S –**



**C S R 2 0 0 3** **C O F F E E** **28**


**a credible Corporate Social Respon­**


**sibility program. “By establishing a**


**preferred coffee suppliers program that**

**incorporates independent verification**


**against rigorous standards, Starbucks**


**is demonstrating to its stakeholders a**


**commitment to social responsibility and**


**transparency,” he stated.**


**So far, our coffee suppliers have**

**engaged the following organic certifiers,**

**public agencies, and other certifica­**

**tion entities to provide the verification**


**we require to be assured Starbucks**


**Coffee Sourcing Guidelines are being**


**implemented:**


**• Rainforest Alliance**


**• MayaCert**


**• British Standards Institute**


**• Icafe/CICAFE (Costa Rica only)**


**• Eco-Logica**


**• Naturland**



**C O F F E E** **C S R 2 0 0 3**
**29**


Coming Together to Build a School


**When one of Starbucks coffee**


**suppliers, Mr. Marcos Chavarria,**


**donated a parcel of land, the**


**Nicaraguan community of La**


**Reforma came together for a**


**common purpose – to build a school.**


**Cash was needed for the project,**


**so Starbucks contributed nearly**


**$25,000. Parents offered their time**


**to clean and prepare the lot for**


**construction. And when the school**


**was completed, the Nicaraguan**


**Ministry of Education provided a**


**full-time teacher. Today, the Las**


**Marias School can accommodate**


**120 school-aged children and 100**


**adult students, serving the residents**


**of this small community located 35**


**kilometers northwest of Jinotega.**


**Approximately 2.3 million pounds**


**(1.04 million kilograms) of excellent**


**coffee are produced annually on**


**small to medium-sized farms in**


**La Reforma.**





**C S R 2 0 0 3** **C O F F E E** **30**


Certified and Conservation Coffees



























**C O F F E E** **C S R 2 0 0 3**
**31**


_**Jamie Hernandez (left) and Librado**_
_**Pascual, both from CEPCO, visited**_
_**Starbucks Support Center in Seattle**_
_**to meet with Starbucks coffee experts,**_
_**Oxfam and the Ford Foundation.**_
_**Here, they are learning about our**_
_**coffee quality standards through the**_
_**process of cupping and tasting.**_





**C S R 2 0 0 3** **C O F F E E** **32**


Conservation Coffee [™] Program Report


























|PROJECT<br>SITE|FARMERS<br>ACTIVELY<br>PARTICIPATING<br>IN PROJECT|NUMBER OF<br>PEOPLE<br>LIVING IN<br>THESE<br>FARMING<br>COMMUNITIES|LAND USING CI’S<br>CONSERVATION<br>COFFEE™ BEST<br>PRACTICES|WILDLIFE<br>BENEFITING<br>FROM PROJECT|AMOUNT OF<br>COFFEE<br>STARBUCKS<br>PURCHASED IN<br>FISCAL 2003|PREMIUM PAID<br>TO FARMERS<br>OVER LOCAL<br>PRICES|STARBUCKS PRODUCTS<br>AND MARKETS|
|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|
|_#& !_<br>_!$"#_<br>_$#'_<br>_"$_<br>_(!_<br>_& _<br>_		_|	||!.#/<br>&#!0.#/|/-#!'#/,$ '."/<br>'+!)1"'+%0&#<br>#+"+%#.#"1#06)<br>*+5,$3&'!&.#<br>$,1+",+)5'+0&'/<br>.#05-#/,$<br>.#-0')#/+"/-#!'#/<br>,$***)/|	
	<br>-,1+"/<br>

<br>('),%.*/||0. 1!(/7.%+'!&"#.,3+#4'!,+"<br>#!$&"#.,3+#4'!,!,$$##/.#/,)"'+<br>,1.,.0&*#.'!+!,*-+5,-#.0#"/0,.#/<br>+"3#.#)1+!&#"'+/'!'$'!/0,.#/'+
<br>&#!,$$##'/)/,/,)"0&.,1%&0. 1!(/<br>$,,"/#.2'!#!!,1+0/'+!)1"'+%!,))#%#/<br>1+'2#./'0'#/+"&,0#)/|
|_""#_<br>_!"%_<br>_)_<br>_#&_<br>_& _<br>_		_||
|!.#/<br>&#!0.#/|+"+%#.#"/-#!'#/<br>'+!)1"'+%0&#%'+0<br>,00#.+"0&#.-5<br>#%)#|<br>-,1+"/<br><br>('),%.*/||0. 1!(/7,+/#.20',+#.1!,$$##'/<br>#4!)1/'2#)52') )#'+0. 1!(//0,.#/'+<br>#.1/'+!#1%1/0
|
|_#&$_<br>_%_<br>_! $#'%! _<br>_!##!#_<br>_!!_<br>_& _<br>__|||!.#/<br>			&#!0.#/|,.#0&+
<br>#+"#*'!/-#!'#//1!&<br>/0&#*#.)"<br>,1!+#0+"0&#<br> #/-#!0!)#" #.|	<br>-,1+"/<br><br>('),%.*/||0. 1!(/)1+!&#",+/#.20',+,),* '<br>3&'!&'//1--)'#"#4!)1/'2#)5 5-.0'!'-0'+%<br>$.*#./'+,1.,.0&*#.'!+!,*-+5<br>,-#.0#"/0,.#/'+.!&
|





_**“I consider the Conservation**_

_**Coffee**_ [™] _**program to be a**_
_**great benefit to the region,**_

_**especially for coffee producers,**_

_**as CI is teaching us the best**_

_**practices for conservation**_

_**coffee. Furthermore, Starbucks**_

_**knows the effort we are**_
_**making in our fields, and**_

_**offers us a better price that**_
_**directly benefits us.”**_


**— Roberto Silvino Hernandez Lievano,**


**Chiapas, Mexico**



**C O F F E E** **C S R 2 0 0 3**
**33**


_**Luis Ovidio Parra and Maria Eucaris**_

_**Ramirez pick coffee cherries at CI’s**_
_**Conservation Coffee site in Colombia.**_


Colombian Coffee Growers


Produce Conservation Coffee


**Colombian coffee growers are**


**reviving traditional farming practices**


**that will help protect a conservation**


**corridor between the Serrania de**


**Paraguas nature reserve and Tatama**


**National Park, home to the Emerald**


**Toucanet and many other endangered**


**species. The joint project between**


**Starbucks and CI was initiated in**


**2000 and resulted in Starbucks**


**selling Conservation Colombia coffee**


**produced by farmers participating**


**in the conservation project, earning**


**them almost 60% above local prices**


**for their crops in 2003.**





**C S R 2 0 0 3** **C O F F E E** **34**


_**Inside these freshly picked coffee**_

_**cherries are the beans that are now**_

_**ready to be processed and roasted to**_
_**perfection.**_



_**Conservation International**_

_**began working together in**_

_**1998, our collaboration has**_
_**produced significant benefits**_

_**for habitat conservation in**_

_**biodiversity hotspots as well**_

_**as for farmer livelihoods.”**_


**— Peter Seligmann, chairman and ceo,**


**Conservation International**


**C O F F E E** **C S R 2 0 0 3**
**35**


About Mary Williams


**As one of the few women in the**


**green coffee business, and an**


**exceptionally skilled coffee buyer and**


**taster, Mary Williams’ 30 years of**


**experience has made her a legend.**


**She spent the last ten years with**

**Starbucks, first as vice president,**


**Green Coffee, and then senior vice**


**president, Coffee. In 2002, Williams**


**was named chairwoman of Starbucks**


**Coffee Trading Company, Lausanne,**


**Switzerland. She retired as senior**


**vice president in 2003 and remains**


**an advisor to the company.**



**R E C O G N I T I O N**



**C S R 2 0 0 3** **C O F F E E** **36**


**G O I N G F O R W A R D**
















#### **T ucked away in the corner, Shata Stephenson sinks into his favorite comfy chair, sips his coffee and hits the books. This is**

**his ritual – something he’s been doing for months. Shata is a Seattle**
**firefighter and is studying hard in hopes of becoming a lieutenant.**
**The relaxing, quiet atmosphere at Starbucks is exactly what Shata**

**seeks – a refuge away from distractions that can interfere with**

**his concentration. Shata’s favorite Starbucks is an Urban Coffee**

**Opportunities (UCO) store on Seattle’s Rainier Avenue – a result of**



**company, Johnson Development Corporation, which brings Starbucks**

**stores to diverse communities. At this particular Starbucks, Shata**

**feels completely at home. “This store has lots of regular customers**

**and a very friendly staff. The baristas are from the local neighborhood**

**and they relate well to their customers,” Shata says. “There’s a**

**choice in coffee shops around here, but I choose Starbucks.”**


**M E E T I N G O U R C U S T O M E R S ’**

**E X P E C T A T I O N S**


**C S R 2 0 0 3** **C U S T O M E R S** **4­**


**B R I N G I N G S T A R B U C K S T O O U R**

**C U S T O M E R S**



_**“When I heard Starbucks**_

_**was opening a new store**_

_**across the street from my**_

_**hometown coffee shop,**_

_**I immediately bristled**_

_**with anger. I was 100%**_

_**determined not to give**_

_**Starbucks my business.**_

_**But Jodi Jaccund (store**_

_**manager) won me over with**_

_**her passionate commitment**_

_**to her customers. Now I**_

_**visit this Starbucks and buy**_

_**products every single day.”**_


**— Nick Ford, Ohio**



**C U S T O M E R S** **C S R 2 0 0 3**
**41**


_**In the Insa-dong district of Seoul,**_
_**South Korea, Starbucks displays**_
_**a non-English, Korean-alphabet**_
_**signboard. The store’s interior is**_

_**decorated with traditional Korean**_

_**masks and fans.**_





**C S R 2 0 0 3** **C U S T O M E R S** **42**


_**Customers who enjoy their Starbucks**_ [®]

**I M P R O V I N G O U R C O M M U N I T I E S W I T H** _**beverages in their own mugs receive a**_

_**$0.10 discount and help keep unnecessary**_

**O U R C U S T O M E R S** _**waste from going to landfills.**_





_**“Your store in Bowie is one**_

_**of the best representatives**_

_**of what Starbucks is all**_

_**about. When I ordered large**_

_**carafes of coffee for an early**_

_**morning community event,**_

_**your store partners came in**_

_**early to get my order ready.**_

_**When I arrived, the coffee**_

_**and all the extras were**_

_**ready to go. Your partners**_

_**even carried my order out**_

_**to my car. I call this good**_

_**customer service.”**_


**— Patricia M. Clunies, Maryland**



**C U S T O M E R S** **C S R 2 0 0 3**
**43**


**L I S T E N I N G T O O U R C U S T O M E R S A N D**

**S TA K E H O L D E R S**


**C S R 2 0 0 3** **C U S T O M E R S** **44**


_**The nutrition information for a**_
_**tall Starbucks**_ [®] _**Latte, like the one**_

_**pictured above, is available online at**_

_**Starbucks.com.**_



**C U S T O M E R S** **C S R 2 0 0 3**
**45**


_**Unprocessed cocoa beans.**_





**C S R 2 0 0 3** **C U S T O M E R S** **46**


**G O I N G F O R W A R D**

##### A the challenge of consistently meeting the expectations of our customers for the s we increase the number of Starbucks stores and hire more partners, we recognize

ultimate _Starbucks Experience,_ as well as the expectations of our communities. But
challenges always present opportunities for improvement. So to ensure we maintain our
commitment to develop enthusiastically satisfied customers all of the time, we will focus
on the following initiatives in 2004:


- Improve our interviewing techniques used during the hiring process to help us select new

partners who demonstrate customer-focused attributes and behaviors.


- Enhance partner training to emphasize Starbucks customer-focused culture, and

highlight the behaviors and actions that will make a positive difference to our customers.


- Continue to monitor developments in the debate about genetic modification and be

guided by regulatory authorities and concerns expressed by our consumers.


- Continue to provide support to the World Cocoa Foundation.


**C U S T O M E R S** **C S R 2 0 0 3**
**47**


#### **F or the past seven years, Starbucks partners have taken a special interest in Morningside Park, a 29-acre parcel of nature that**

**connects the Morningside Heights and Harlem neighborhoods**

**in New York City. They have created an Earth Day tradition that**

**involves gathering as many New York partners, friends, families and**

**customers as possible and heading to the park for a day of clean-up**



**showed up, including Beth Jamison and more than 300 of her fellow**

**Starbucks partners – a record! With all of these volunteers on**

**hand, 7,000 shrubs, trees and ground covers were planted, leaves**

**were raked, wood chips were spread and the park’s handball courts**

**were repainted.**


_**More than 30 Starbucks partners**_
_**joined president and ceo Orin Smith**_
_**(center) to volunteer for a Palo Alto,**_
_**California, literacy organization, YES**_
_**Reading. Volunteers cleaned the garden,**_
_**planted flowers, painted flower boxes**_

_**and read to the children enrolled in the**_

_**YES Reading program.**_


**Total contributions in fiscal 2003**


**were $11.3 million.**







**C S R 2 0 0 3** **C O M M U N I T Y** **5­**




**The volunteers constructed a boardwalk**


**and bridge that day, which undoubtedly**


**will have a lasting impact.**


**On the West Coast, partners and**


**customers volunteered 170 hours and**


**raised $1,700 for Northwest Harvest.**


**They packaged nearly 30,000 pounds**


**of fresh vegetables that were distributed**


**at local food banks throughout the state**


**of Washington.**


**As long-time supporters of the fight**


**against HIV/AIDS, our Canadian part­**


**ners once again demonstrated how much**


**they care. Teams of partners, friends,**


**family and customers participated in 11**


**AIDS Walks across the country during**


**September 2003, raising $31,000 for**


**the cause. At the Toronto AIDS Walk,**


**more than 700 walkers formed Team**


**Starbucks.**



**C O M M U N I T Y** **C S R 2 0 0 3**
**51**


_**Christine Day (right), Starbucks**_
_**senior vice president, celebrates the**_
_**opening of the new school with Josie**_
_**Howell, a member of the First Place**_
_**advisory board.**_


Christine Day Makes First Place
a Priority


**The demands of being a Starbucks**


**executive haven’t deterred Christine**


**Day from assuming another role in**


**her busy life. For the past six years,**


**Christine was a board member**


**of First Place, a Seattle school**


**created for the children of families**


**in crisis. “What I loved most about**


**being involved were the kids, and**


**seeing how the school made such a**


**positive difference in their lives,”**


**Christine noted.**


**During her tenure on the board,**


**Christine served as president and**


**helped First Place complete its**


**$6 million capital campaign used to**


**build a new school. “The opening**


**ceremony for the new school was**


**clearly a highlight for me,” Christine**


**said. “One loyal teacher couldn’t**


**believe her own eyes that ‘everything,**


**just everything the teachers dreamed**


**of was here.’ In that one moment,**


**all the long hours of planning and**


**fundraising had been worth it.”**









**C S R 2 0 0 3** **C O M M U N I T Y** **52**




_**Starbucks partners from Peru came**_

_**to Seattle for their immersion training.**_
_**During their stay, they took time to**_
_**volunteer on Earth Day, teaming with**_
_**local store partners and the Seattle Parks**_
_**Department to clean up Volunteer Park.**_


_“Starbucks support_

_has helped the Earth_

_Day Network to deliver_

_environmental information_

_and capacity-building tools_

_to the communities that_

_need it most – low income,_

_urban communities.”_


**— Kathleen Rogers, president,**


**Earth Day Network**



**C O M M U N I T Y** **C S R 2 0 0 3**
**53**


_**(photo above, left) In Amsterdam,**_
_**Starbucks partners in our regional**_
_**office and at our roasting plant have**_
_**supported Emma Children’s Hospital**_
_**by donating computer hardware**_
_**and making financial contributions**_
_**through special fundraising initiatives.**_
_**Four-year-old Zoe, pictured here, is a**_
_**patient at Emma Children’s Hospital.**_


_**(photo above, right) On National Tree**_
_**Day in Australia, an estimated 170**_
_**Starbucks partners planted 10,000**_

_**trees as part of Starbucks Australia’s**_
_**Giving Back Program. Starbucks**_
_**supported this event by purchasing**_
_**seedlings, printing brochures and**_
_**posters, providing coffee to volunteers**_
_**at tree-planting sites and paying**_
_**wages to store partners while they**_
_**planted trees.**_





**C S R 2 0 0 3** **C O M M U N I T Y** **54**


_**Shunsuke Baba, who had his dream**_
_**of swimming with dolphins fulfilled**_
_**by the Make-A-Wish Foundation of**_
_**Japan, created special artwork for this**_

_**commemorative mug.**_


Starbucks and Make-A-Wish

Foundation of Japan


**Starbucks Coffee Japan wanted to**


**make dreams come true for children**


**suffering from life-threatening**


**illnesses. In 2003, they formed a**


**partnership with Make-A-Wish**


**Foundation of Japan and set out**


**to raise money from the sales of a**


**limited edition Starbucks Card and a**


**commemorative mug.**


**Our customers in Japan responded**


**by purchasing Starbucks cards and**


**mugs, which enabled 2% of the**


**proceeds to be donated to Make-A-**


**Wish Foundation of Japan. Seattle**


**Mariners baseball great Ichiro Suzuki,**


**who had granted wishes to children**


**from Make-A-Wish Foundation of**


**Japan in the past, participated, too.**


**He and his wife added $25,000.**


**The Tateuchi Foundation, which has**


**funded many philanthropic initiatives**


**in Seattle and Japan, and The**


**Starbucks Foundation added more.**


**The total raised was $120,000.**



**C O M M U N I T Y** **C S R 2 0 0 3**
**55**


_**Joe Read, a NY SCORES**_
_**participant, reads his poem to an**_
_**audience gathered at Starbucks.**_


In Manhattan, Starbucks
Showcases Work of Young Poets


**Rising above the ambient sounds**


**of a bustling coffeehouse were the**


**voices of 12 slightly nervous students**


**who wanted to share something**


**special with the crowd at Starbucks –**


**their poems. Taking turns, each**


**approached the microphone, as the**


**audience hushed, and read a piece**


**they had written as part of their**


**involvement with NY SCORES, an**

**America SCORES affiliate. For most**


**of the students, this performance was**

**probably a first. But the experience**


**undoubtedly gave all the students**

**some newfound confidence as**


**their poems were enthusiastically**


**received.**





**C S R 2 0 0 3** **C O M M U N I T Y** **56**


**C O M M U N I T Y** **C S R 2 0 0 3**

**57**


_**This artwork was designed for**_
_**Starbucks and captures our spirit of**_

_**community and environment.**_





**C S R 2 0 0 3** **C O M M U N I T Y** **58**


_**New York State Senator Owen**_

_**Johnson (left) and Marty Annese,**_
_**Starbucks senior vice president, read**_
_**with children at the opening of the**_
_**library at Wyandanch Daycare Center**_
_**on Long Island.**_


Starbucks Helps Build New


Libraries


**Starbucks joined forces with the**


**literacy group, Books for Kids**


**Foundation, to help create 10 new**


**libraries for children in the New**


**York metro area. The libraries are**


**being established within existing**


**community-based organizations and**

**schools. The first library opened in**


**March 2003, at Yonkers Children’s**


**Place. A second library was built in**


**the Wyandanch Daycare Center on**


**Long Island. A team of architects,**


**designers, store developers and**


**community liaisons – all Starbucks**


**partners – helped renovate and**


**create an inviting space where kids**


**would feel comfortable.**



**C O M M U N I T Y** **C S R 2 0 0 3**
**59**


_**This small tea-growing village in the**_
_**Darjeeling region of India is one of**_

_**the communities benefiting from Tazo’s**_

_**CHAI project.**_



**C O F F E E** **[- ]** **A N D T E A** **[- ]** **G R O W I N G**

**C O M M U N I T I E S**



**C S R 2 0 0 3** **C O M M U N I T Y** **60**


_**A Mercy Corps staff member (center)**_

_**meets with local villagers in the**_
_**Darjeeling region of India to discuss**_

_**the goals of Tazo’s CHAI project.**_


_“The generous and_

_committed support of_

_Starbucks has helped_

_thousands of families help_

_themselves.”_


**— Bill Fishbein, founder and executive**


**director, Coffee Kids**



**61** **C O M M U N I T Y** **C S R 2 0 0 3**


Starbucks Environmental Mission

Statement


**Starbucks is committed to a role**


**of environmental leadership in all**

**facets of our business. We will fulfill**


**this mission by a commitment to:**


**• Understanding environmental issues**


**and sharing information with our**


**partners.**


**• Developing innovative and flexible**


**solutions to bring about change.**


**• Striving to buy, sell and use**


**environmentally friendly products.**


**• Recognizing that fiscal responsibility**


**is essential to our environmental**


**future.**


**• Instilling environmental responsibility**


**as a corporate value.**


**• Measuring and monitoring our**


**progress for each project.**


**• Encouraging all partners to share in**


**our mission.**



**M I N I M I Z I N G O U R E N V I R O N M E N T A L**

**I M P A C T**



**C S R 2 0 0 3** **E N V I R O N M E N T** **6­**


**63** **E N V I R O N M E N T** **C S R 2 0 0 3**


_**Our partners at Starbucks Support**_

_**Center in Seattle have access to a**_

_**Flexcar**_ [™] _**for work-related travel**_
_**during the day, which allows them to**_

_**leave their cars at home.**_





**C S R 2 0 0 3** **E N V I R O N M E N T** **64**


**65** **E N V I R O N M E N T** **C S R 2 0 0 3**


International Grounds


**Outside the U.S., some Starbucks**


**stores have discovered how to reuse**


**coffee grounds. In Japan, a team**


**of Starbucks partners realized that**


**coffee grounds could be used as an**


**ingredient to make paper. A local**


**printing company used this paper to**

**print “Starbucks Press,” the official**


**Starbucks Japan newsletter.**


**Starbucks partnered with the**


**Composting Council of Canada to**


**promote recycling, waste reduction**


**and environmental awareness. Our**


**Canadian stores offered complimen-**


**tary spent coffee grounds, hosted**


**in-store composting seminars with**


**master gardeners, and distributed**


**useful information on composting.**


**In Bahrain, the local Starbucks dries**


**coffee grounds in the sun, packages**


**them, and gives the grounds to**


**customers as fertilizer for house plants.**


**And on Environmental Day in South**


**Korea, our stores gave their customers**

**flower pots that contained a bag of**


**reused coffee grounds for fertilizer,**


**topped with some planting seeds.**


**(See photo above, left.)**





**C S R 2 0 0 3** **E N V I R O N M E N T** **66**


_**The above illustration identifies some**_


_**measures we are incorporating in**_
_**the design and construction of our**_

_**stores. These measures are aimed at**_

_**conserving resources and improving**_
_**our environmental performance.**_



**67** **E N V I R O N M E N T** **C S R 2 0 0 3**


_**(photo above, left) Paula Boggs,**_
_**Starbucks executive vice president,**_
_**general counsel and secretary,**_
_**encourages her team to be active**_
_**contributors in the community through**_
_**pro bono work and other activities.**_


_**(photo above, right) Attendees at**_

_**Starbucks Green Team Action Leaders**_

_**Conference in Seattle.**_





**C S R 2 0 0 3** **E N V I R O N M E N T** **68**


**G O I N G F O R W A R D**

##### S years later. Our expansion to new parts of the world has elevated our need to develop tarbucks went from 272 retail stores in 1993, to more than 7,000 locations ten

a global philanthropic strategy and to assess our environmental stewardship around
the globe.


As proud as we are of our accomplishments in 2003, Starbucks recognizes that we can

reach further, try harder and make improvements. Here’s what we plan to achieve in
2004 and beyond:


- Increase the percentage of partners participating in Make Your Mark and Choose


to Give!


**69** **E N V I R O N M E N T** **C S R 2 0 0 3**


#### **D omingo Olvera never imagined that one day he’d own 75 acres of agricultural land and have a three-bedroom house built in**

**his homeland of Jalisco, Mexico. But that’s exactly what he and his**

**wife, Mariana, managed to do after cashing in some of Domingo’s**

_Bean Stock_ **grants that he accrued by packaging coffee at Starbucks**

**roasting plant in Kent, Washington. The house is “a nice place; not so**
**big, but nice,” describes Domingo of the home where his family stays**

**when they return to Jalisco for vacations. “Next, I’ll use my** _Bean_

_Stock_ **to expand the house,” Domingo explains. “This has been real**



**good for me. I value all the benefits that Starbucks provides for me –**
**the stock options, the 401(k) and S.I.P. (stock investment plan).”**


**Domingo isn’t the only Starbucks partner in the family. Mariana also**

**works at the roasting plant and so does Domingo’s brother, Juan. In**

**fact, Mariana has used her** _Bean Stock_ **to create her own retirement**

**nest egg, and Juan used his to purchase a parcel of land that neighbors**

**Domingo’s property in Jalisco.**


_**Our very first store in Seattle’s Pike**_

_**Place Market.**_



**S T A R B U C K S H I S T O R Y A N D C O M P A N Y**

**P R O F I L E**



**C S R 2 0 0 3** **P R O F I T A B I L I T Y** **76**


**P R O F I T A B I L I T Y** **C S R 2 0 0 3**
**73**


_**“One of the reasons**_

_**I joined the board of**_

_**Starbucks was because of**_

_**the social conscience the**_

_**company demonstrates.”**_


**— Senator Bill Bradley,**


**Starbucks director**


_**A meeting of Starbucks board**_

_**of directors.**_



**C O R P O R A T E G O V E R N A N C E**





**C S R 2 0 0 3** **P R O F I T A B I L I T Y** **76**


**E X P E C T A T I O N S O F O U R S U P P L I E R S**


**P R O F I T A B I L I T Y** **C S R 2 0 0 3**
**75**


Green Bean Award


**Maybe it was Ron Weber’s**


**ingenuity, or simply great common**


**sense. Whichever, Ron’s decision to**


**purchase thinner and lighter plastic**


**garbage bags for Starbucks stores**


**was the right move. Not only did**


**the bags cost less, saving Starbucks**


**an estimated $500,000 a year, but**


**the new bags eliminated close to**


**750,000 pounds of solid waste on**

**an annual basis. It was definitely a**


**win-win for the company and the**


**environment. Starbucks respectfully**


**honored Ron Weber with the**


**company’s Green Bean Award.**


**Ron is a partner in Starbucks**


**procurement department. He was**


**one of six recipients of the 2003**


**Green Bean Award, which recognized**


**their positive contributions to the**


**environment. Recipients receive**


**cash awards, plus Starbucks makes**


**donations to the environmental**


**organizations of the recipients’ choice.**



**R E C O G N I T ION**


**G O I N G F O R W A R D**

##### A s a publicly traded company, Starbucks is accountable to its shareholders. Investors measure a company by its ability to deliver strong financial results both short- and

long-term, as well as by its commitment to a sustainable business strategy. So far,
Starbucks has managed to do both. In doing so, we carefully balance our financial goals

with our Guiding Principles and commitment to sustainability to ensure Starbucks has

lasting value.


While Starbucks accomplishments in recent years have created a great deal of optimism
about the company’s future, we don’t rest on our laurels. Improvements can and will
always be made. Here are a couple of initiatives Starbucks will tackle in the year ahead:


- Complete training for Starbucks global procurement team on the Supplier Code of


**P R O F I T A B I L I T Y** **C S R 2 0 0 3**
**77**


**I N D E P E N D E N T V E R I F I C A T I O N L E T T E R**


**C S R 2 0 0 3** **V E R I F I C A T I O N** **78**


**A B O U T T H I S R E P O R T**


**A B O U T R E P O R T** **C S R 2 0 0 3**

**79**


**FEEDBACK AND FURTHER INFORMATION**


**C S R 2 0 0 3** **F E E D B A C K** **80**


**© 2004 Starbucks Coffee Company. All rights reserved. Printed in the USA.**


**This report is printed on 100% post-consumer recycled paper.**


